---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 1.1 Security Overview
description: some description
---

# 1.1 Security Overview

## 1.1.1 The Security Landscape

The TestOut Security Pro Certification exam measures not just what you know, but what you can do. This exam measures your ability to implement processes to protect an organization's assets against danger, damage, loss, and criminal activity.

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

What challenges does a security professional face?
What is the difference between integrity and non-repudiation?
What are the three main goals of the CIA of Security?
What are the key components of risk management?
What are three types of threat agents?

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Security
     </td>
     <td>
      The degree of protection against danger, damage,
            loss, and criminal activity.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Confidentiality
     </td>
     <td>
      Confidentiality ensures that data is not disclosed
            to unintended persons.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Integrity
     </td>
     <td>
      Integrity ensures that data is not modified or
            tampered with.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Availability
     </td>
     <td>
      Availability ensures that a system is up so that
            data is available when needed.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Non-Repudiation
     </td>
     <td>
      Non-repudiation provides the validation of a
            message's origin.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Asset
     </td>
     <td>
      Something that has value to an individual or an
            organization.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Threat
     </td>
     <td>
      Anything that has the potential to cause the loss
            of an asset.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Threat agent
     </td>
     <td>
      The person or entity that attempts or carries out
            a threat.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Vulnerability
     </td>
     <td>
      An opening or weakness in the system.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Exploit
     </td>
     <td>
      An act, procedure, or piece of software that takes
            advantage of a vulnerability to carry out an attack.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 1.1.2 Security Concepts

Security Concepts 00:00-00:19
In order to be an effective security professional, you need to be familiar with the concepts and the roles surrounding information security. This will help you understand the industry terms and lingo, and it will also provide a lot of context as you progress through this course.

Assets 00:19-00:56
The first information security concept that you need to be familiar with is that of an asset.

An asset is simply something that has value to an individual or an organization. This can be a physical device, such as a laptop or iPad, or it can be electronic information, such as a pdf document on a server. However, most of the time we're talking about an asset we mean the latter.

For example, let's suppose we have a server in our organization, and on this server there is a database that contains customer information, including credit card numbers and order history. This database has a lot of value to the organization and is therefore considered an asset.

Threats 00:56-01:38
The next security concept that you need to be aware of are threats. Threats represent anything that has the potential to cause the loss of an asset.

And notice I said has the potential to cause the loss of an asset. A threat isn't the actual loss of an asset. It's merely the potential—"the risk—"that an asset could be stolen.

A threat can come in many different forms. It can be a virus, a Trojan, an external hacker, an internal employee. Because threats come in all shapes and sizes, sometimes we refer to them as blended threats.

To continue with our example, some threats to our customer database include ransomware, data exfiltration—"which is a fancy way of saying stealing data—"Trojans, and hackers.

Threat Agents 01:38-02:53
Next, we have the threat agent. A threat agent is the actual person or entity that carries out a threat.

When it comes to threat agents, there are a few characteristics, or attributes, that can categorize them. For example, threat agents can be internal or external; they can have a little to no resources or funding, or they can be heavily funded with a lot of resources; they can also be opportunistic—"that is, they are simply attacking a system because it has a vulnerability—"or they can have a specific intent or motive.

Now, within these threat agent categories, there are different types of actors—"the type of entity carrying out the attack. For example, an actor could be an organized crime syndicate trying to steal credit card information. An actor could also be a nation state trying to steal classified information. Even business competitors can be a type of actor who try to steal company secrets in order to gain an economic edge.

One example of a nation state actor you might be familiar with is North Korea. On November 24, 2014, North Korean hackers gained access to Sony Pictures networks and stole confidential information, including employee records, personal emails, and copies of unreleased movies. The information was then released to the public on the internet.

Vulnerability 02:53-03:13
In order for threat agents to carry out a threat, they need an opening—"a weakness in the system. This is known as a vulnerability.

For example, a vulnerability could be a disgruntled internal employee who happens to be an information security professional and has an elevated level of access to a server system. Another vulnerability is an enabled USB port.

Exploit 03:13-03:49
And the last concept we will talk about is an exploit. An exploit is a procedure, a piece of software, or a sequence of commands that takes advantage of a vulnerability to actually carry out an attack.

For example, say we have an enabled USB port on our customer database—"first vulnerability—"and we also have a disgruntled employee—"second vulnerability.

Let's say that the employee decides to use a USB thumb drive to steal the customer database. This is an exploit. The employee used the vulnerability of the enabled USB port and their elevated permissions in order to steal the customer database.

Summary 03:49-04:16
Because security is a constant balancing act between convenience and protection, you will constantly be looking at ways you can mitigate risk and threats while also maintaining an acceptable level of ease of use.

However, by understanding the basic concepts of information security, you will have a much easier time assessing the risks to your systems and identifying the ways in which you can protect it.

## 1.1.3 Security Introduction

Security is the degree of protection against danger, damage, loss, and criminal activity.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Security Challenges
- Security Terms
- Security Components
- Risk management
- Threat Agents

### Security Challenges

In regards to information security, computers, and IT networks, modern day security challenges include the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Challenge
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Sophisticated Attacks
    </td>
    <td>
     Sophisticated attacks are complex, making them difficult to detect and thwart. Sophisticated attacks:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Use common internet tools and protocols, making it difficult to distinguish an attack from legitimate traffic.
      </li>
      <li>
       Vary their behavior, making the same attack appear differently each time.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Proliferation of Attack Software
    </td>
    <td>
     A wide variety of attack tools are available on the internet, allowing anyone with a moderate level of technical knowledge to download the tools and run an attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Attack Scale and Velocity
    </td>
    <td>
     The scale and velocity of an attack can grow to millions of computers in a matter of minutes or days due to its ability to proliferate on the internet. Because modern attacks are not limited to user interactions, such as using a floppy disk, to spread an attack from machine to machine, the attacks often affect very large numbers of computers in a relatively short amount of time.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Security Terms

Common security terms include the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Confidentiality
    </td>
    <td>
     Confidentiality ensures that data is not disclosed to unintended persons. This is provided through
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      encryption
     </i>
     , which converts the data into a form that makes it less likely to be usable by an unintended recipient.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Integrity
    </td>
    <td>
     Integrity ensures that data is not modified or tampered with. This is provided through
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      hashing
     </i>
     .
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Availability
    </td>
    <td>
     Availability ensures the uptime of the system so that data is available when needed.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Non-repudiation
    </td>
    <td>
     Non-repudiation provides validation of a message's origin. For example, if a user sends a digitally signed email, they cannot claim later that the email was not sent. Non-repudiation is enforced by
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      digital signatures
     </i>
     .
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
The CIA of Security refers to confidentiality, integrity, and availability. These are often identified as the three main goals of security.

### Security Components

Key security components include the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Component
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Physical Security
    </td>
    <td>
     Physical security includes all hardware and software necessary to secure data, such as firewalls and antivirus software.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Users and Administrators
    </td>
    <td>
     Users and administrators are the people who use the software and the people who manage the software, respectively.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Policies
    </td>
    <td>
     Policies are the rules an organization implements to protect information.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
### Risk Management

Risk management is the process of identifying security issues and deciding which countermeasures to take in reducing risk to an acceptable level. The main objective is to reduce the risk for an organization to a level that is deemed acceptable by senior management. Risk management generally takes the following items into account:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Item
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Asset
    </td>
    <td>
     An
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      asset
     </i>
     is something that has value to the person or organization, such as sensitive information in a database.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Threat
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      threat
     </i>
     is an entity that can cause the loss of an asset or any potential danger to the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of information or systems, such as a data breach that results in a database being stolen.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Threat Agent
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      threat agent
     </i>
     (sometimes known as an
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      attacker
     </i>
     ) is an entity that can carry out a threat, such as a disgruntled employee who copies a database to a thumb drive and sells it to a 
		competitor.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Vulnerability
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      vulnerability
     </i>
     is a weakness that allows a threat to be carried out, such as a USB port that is enabled on the server hosting the database or a server room door that is frequently left ajar. USB devices pose the greatest threat to the confidentiality of data in most secure organizations. There are so many devices that can support file storage that stealing data has become easy, and preventing it is difficult.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Exploit
    </td>
    <td>
     An
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      exploit
     </i>
     is a procedure or product that takes advantage of a vulnerability to carry out a threat, such as when a disgruntled employee waits for the server room door to be left ajar, copies the database to a thumb drive, and then sells it.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
### Threat Agents

Types of threat agents include the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Employee
    </td>
    <td>
     Employees can be the most overlooked yet most dangerous threat agent because they have greater access to information assets than anyone on the outside trying to break in. Employees are also known as
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      internal
     </i>
     threats. Employees can:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Become disgruntled with their employer
      </li>
      <li>
       Be bribed by a competitor
      </li>
      <li>
       Be an unintentional participant in an attack
      </li>
      <li>
       Accidentally delete or cause data corruption
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Spy
    </td>
    <td>
     Spies can be employed in corporate espionage to obtain information about competitors for commercial purposes. Spies are typically deployed in the following scenarios:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A spy applies for a job with a commercial competitor and then exploits internal vulnerabilities to steal information and return it to their client.
      </li>
      <li>
       A spy attacks an organization from the outside by exploiting external vulnerabilities and then returns the information to their client.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hacker
    </td>
    <td>
     In general, a
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      hacker
     </i>
     is any threat agent who uses their technical knowledge to bypass security mechanisms to exploit a vulnerability to access information. Hacker subcategories include the following:
     <ul>
      <li>
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        Script kiddies
       </i>
       , who download and run attacks available on the internet, but generally are not technically savvy enough to create their own attacking code or script.
      </li>
      <li>
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        Cybercriminals
       </i>
       , who usually seek to exploit security vulnerabilities for some kind of financial reward or revenge.
      </li>
      <li>
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        Cyber terrorists
       </i>
       , who generally use the Internet to carry out terrorist activities, such as disrupting network-dependent institutions.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
