---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 1.2 Defense Planning
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What is layered security?
- What are the seven layers in layered security?
- What is a countermeasure?
- How can countermeasures reduce the risk of a threat agent being able to exploit a vulnerability?

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Layered security
    </td>
    <td>
     A security approach that combines multiple security controls and defenses to create a cumulative
        effect.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Layered security model
    </td>
    <td>
     A security approach that defines seven layers of security.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 1.2.1 The Layered Security Model

### The Layered Security Model 00:00-00:28

Defending a network from threats and attacks isn't easy. As a security professional, you need to be vigilant to every entry point, vulnerability, attack surface, and other potential threats to your organization. And you must neutralize or eliminate every single one.

Luckily, there's a way to make defending your network and organization a bit more manageable. In this lesson, we're going to explore the layered security model strategy.

### What is Layered Security? 00:28-01:39

Layered security, sometimes called defense-in-depth security, is a security approach that combines multiple security controls and defenses to create a cumulative effect.

For example, you can encrypt data on a hard drive. But that hard drive can also be inside a workstation that contains a host-based firewall and anti-malware software. And that workstation could be physically secured to a desk inside a locked office, which is inside a controlled-access building, which is surrounded by a fence.

As you can see, each of these security measures provides an added level of security and deterrence. Alone, they may not be enough protection. But together, they create a cumulative security effect that protects sensitive information on the hard drive.

The layered security model breaks down each security layer into specific categories. In this course, we've divided it into seven security layers: Policies, Procedures, and Awareness; Physical; Perimeter; Network; Host; Application; and Data. Each of these layers contains a subset of subjects and practices necessary for an effective defense.

We're going to do a basic overview of each layer. As you go through the course, you'll learn about each one in detail.

### Policies, Procedures, and Awareness 01:39-02:06

The first layer is the Policies, Procedures, and Awareness segment. This layer concerns things like user education, manageable network plans, and how to manage employee onboarding and offboarding. It also covers application development policies, third-party integration policies, and general employment and user management policies, such as if an employee can connect a mobile device to the company network, or how complex a user's password must be.

### Physical 02:06-02:27

Next is the Physical layer. This layer is concerned with the various types of physical threats and how to defend against them. To physically protect an organization effectively, we must be familiar with fences, door locks, mantraps, turnstiles, device locks, server cages, cameras, motion detectors, and even environmental controls.

### Perimeter 02:27-03:02

The Perimeter layer deals with your network's perimeter defense. This is the first line of defense against network attacks. For a remote attacker to gain access to your network, they first need to penetrate this layer. Consequently, it's vital to fully understand the perimeter layer.

To properly secure this layer, you need to recognize the various types of perimeter attacks such as a DDoS or DNS attack. You also need to understand the various tools to defend against these attacks, such as properly configuring firewalls using ACLs or effectively securing a wireless network.

### Network 03:02-03:30

Inside the perimeter is the fourth security layer—the Network layer.

To properly secure your network you must be able to identify when an intrusion occurs. You also need to know how to install and configure switches and routers, implement VLANs, perform penetration testing, and utilize virtualization.

Perimeter and Network layers often merge since they share some interrelated topics and domains, but it's still beneficial to approach them as two separate layers.

### Host 03:30-03:48

Next, we have the Host layer. This layer covers the security of each individual workstation, laptop, and mobile device. The Host layer includes log management, OS hardening, patch management and implementation, auditing, and even malware and password attacks.

### Application 03:48-04:06

The sixth layer is the Application layer. As its name implies, the Application layer deals with applications. It also deals with how users access applications and resources. As such, it deals with authentication and authorization, user management, group policies, and even web application security.

### Data 04:06-04:30

The last segment in our security model is the Data layer. To effectively secure this layer, you must understand how to store data properly, destroy data, and classify data. You also need to be very familiar with cryptography and securing data transmissions. And like we mentioned with the previous layers, you must be able to recognize how attackers will try to access your data, and how to defend against them.

### Summary 04:30-05:48

Now, it's important that you don't misunderstand the definition of layered security.

A layered security approach doesn't mean going out and purchasing dozens of security devices and hardware components and connecting them to the network hoping one of them stops an attack or identifies a threat. That approach would create an unmanageable and unsecure network.

Instead, layered security is a systematic approach to organizational security that identifies the best protection solution for each security layer, so if necessary, each layer can effectively stand on its own.

For example, at the Data layer, our encryption policies and protocols should suffice that if we experienced a physical security breach where a hard drive was stolen, then that thief wouldn't be able to access the information stored on it.

Similarly, at the Policies, Procedures, and Awareness layer, users should be sufficiently knowledgeable and trained so that a malware or spam filtering device in the Perimeter layer would be unnecessary, or malware protection at the Application layer would be superfluous.

Nevertheless, layering security obstacles in the path of would-be attackers helps ensure an organization's security. And we do this by following the layered security approach and implementing a layered defense.

## 1.2.2 User Education

### User Education 00:00-00:25

Employees are the single greatest threat to network security. They can wreak havoc on systems by unknowingly downloading viruses, accidentally divulging sensitive information, or storing authentication credentials in plain sight.

The most important thing you can do to protect against the inherent risks that employees pose is to properly educate them on the countless threats they face.

### Employees are the Target 00:25-00:47

First, employees must understand that with the majority of attacks, they are the primary target. This is because attackers know that if they can compromise a single workstation, they can leverage that position and gain access to the entire network. The reason for this is it's much easier to trick an uneducated employee than it is to find a vulnerability in a monitored and protected system.

### Understanding Attack Strategies 00:47-01:29

To effectively protect themselves, employees must be aware of the common tactics used by attackers.

One of the most common attacks is a phishing attack, where employees are lured into clicking a link or downloading an attachment from a seemingly legitimate email. Most often this email will have a call for urgency or seem to come from a person with authority in the organization.

Whatever the attack is, be sure to train your employees on how to identify the various attacks they will be the target of. Train them on how to spot suspicious emails, instant messages, downloads, attachments, and websites. In addition, be sure to have an effective password policy and clean desk policy in place and don't forget to enforce it.

### Internal Threats 01:29-01:48

Employees must also be aware that security threats don't always originate from outside the company. For example, it's possible for a disgruntled employee to do quite a bit of damage to a network and organization. Because of this, be sure to train users on how to identify suspicious activity from other employees and how they can report it.

### Inside Security Threats 01:48-02:03

And finally, employees must be aware of the company's security policies and computer usage policies.

These policies should be given to the employee during the onboarding process and they should know that it's their job to understand these policies and adhere to them.

### Summary 02:03-02:34

Ensuring that your company's security policies and training are effective is your job. One of the best things you can do as a security professional is create a culture of security awareness in your organization. You want to educate employees on the common threats they will face and how they can protect against them.

And while it's impossible to make a system 100 percent secure, you can make your job a lot easier by properly educating the employees in your organization.

## 1.2.3 Defense Planning Facts

Layered security, or defense in depth, combines multiple security controls and defenses to create a cumulative effect.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- The seven layers of security
- User education
- Countermeasures

### The Seven Layers of Security

Layered security has seven layers. The following table describes each layer.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Security Layer
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Includes:
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Policies, procedures, and awareness
    </td>
    <td>
     User education; manageable network plans; and employee onboarding and off-boarding procedures.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Physical
    </td>
    <td>
     Fences, door locks, mantraps, turnstiles, device locks, server cages, cameras, motion detectors, and
        environmental controls.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Perimeter
    </td>
    <td>
     Firewalls using ACLs and securing the wireless network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Network
    </td>
    <td>
     The installation and configuration of switches and routers; implementation of VLANs; penetration
        testing; and virtualization use.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Host
    </td>
    <td>
     Log management, OS hardening, patch implementation, patch management, auditing, anti-malware, and
        password attack prevention on each workstation, laptop, and mobile device.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Application
    </td>
    <td>
     Authentication and authorization, user management, group policies, and web application security.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data
    </td>
    <td>
     Storing data properly, destroying data, classifying data, cryptography, and data transmission
        security.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

It is important to know that each layer does not require its own security appliance or software. Layered security is not about specific mechanisms, but the method of protecting a network by employing various techniques at one time.

### User Education

Employees are the single greatest threat to network security. Therefore, user education is very important. Look for ways to take the following actions:

- Make employees aware that they are the primary targets in most attacks.
- Ensure employees understand that phishing attacks are one of the most common attacks directed at employees.
- Train employees to identify email, instant messaging, download, and website attacks.
- Enforce effective password policies, including a policy that prohibits writing down passwords.
- Train employees to identify both internal and external threats.
- Ensure that employees are aware of the company's security policies.

### Countermeasures

A countermeasure is a way to mitigate a potential risk. Countermeasures reduce the risk of a threat agent exploiting a vulnerability. An appropriate countermeasure:

- Provides a security solution to an identified problem.
- Is not dependent on secrecy.
- Is testable and verifiable.
- Provides uniform or consistent protection for all assets and users.
- Is independent of other safeguards.
- Requires minimal human intervention.
- Is tamper-proof.
- Has overrides and fail-safe defaults.
