---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 1.3 Using the Simulator
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- How do I complete simulation labs in this course?
- What features have been simulated in this environment?
- How will getting acquainted with the simulation environment help me acquire the necessary skills?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Read simulated component documentation and view components to make appropriate choices to meet the scenario.
- Add and remove simulated computer components.
- Change views and add simulated components.
- Use the zoom feature to view additional image details.
- Use the simulation interface to identify where simulated cables connect to the computer.
- Attach simulated cables.
- Configure a security appliance.
- Install a security appliance.

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Lab simulator
    </td>
    <td>
     The lab simulator is a LabSim learning tool that presents a virtual environment which you can
        manipulate like an actual environment.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Lab tasks
    </td>
    <td>
     The tasks necessary to complete the lab.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Navigation bar
    </td>
    <td>
     A lab simulation feature used to change to a new location, such as a building, floor, or office.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Shelf
    </td>
    <td>
     A area that contains hardware components that may be used in the simulation.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Exhibits
    </td>
    <td>
     Additional information about the simulation environment that may be useful in completing the lab.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 1.3.1 Using the Simulator

Use the Simulator 00:04-00:15
TestOut's lab activities are key to your training. In this demonstration, I'm going to show you the components of the lab simulator so that you can successfully complete the lab activities in this course.

Scenario Window 00:15-00:47
The lab has four main areas. Over here, on the left, is the Scenario window. The Scenario window is very important. The Scenario describes the task you're required to perform during the lab activity. Typically, the items in this bullet list provide you with all the tasks that you're going to be evaluated on. Therefore, you'll be expected to perform these tasks correctly as you go through the lab. If you need more space while you're working, you can hide the Scenario window by clicking this button right here, and you can click it a second time to bring it back.

Workspace Area 00:47-00:55
The main area where you're going to do most of your work is called the Workspace. It includes all the items you'll work with and configure.

Shelf Area 00:55-01:06
In addition to the Scenario and the Workspace, we also have the Shelf. The Shelf holds pieces of equipment organized by category. Right now, we have cables and monitors.

Read the Scenario 01:06-01:18
Now, let's go through the process of completing a lab. The first thing you need to do is read the Scenario. Read it very carefully because when you're done, you're evaluated on whether you did everything it asked you to.

Review Objects in the Workspace 01:18-02:59
Then you need to examine the objects within the Workspace. You can use this slider to zoom in and out if you need to. You can also use the zoom out and zoom in buttons or the drop-down list here.

Before we go any further, I need to point out that each object within the Workspace occupies a certain amount of space, which is denoted by the outline that's around each object. For example, this is the area for the power strip, this is the area for the computer, this is the area for the keyboard, this is the area for the mouse, and this is the area for the wall plates. Within each of these windows, there are several buttons that allow us to change the perspective of the view for that object.

I'm currently looking at the front of the computer. But let's suppose I need to do some work on the back of the computer. I can come up here and click the Back button. And when I do, I can see all the various connectors that are implemented on the back of the computer. If I need to see the front of the computer again, say, to power it on, I can click the Front button. You'll notice that not all of the objects have multiple views. The computer does, but the keyboard only has one view, the top view.

You're not stuck with this layout within the Workspace. You can rearrange the objects in the Workspace to make them more convenient to work with. For example, I could grab the keyboard and move it to the other side of the computer. Let's move the mouse as well. There are some objects that you cannot move within the Workspace. For example, I can't move this wall plate because, well, it's a wall plate. It's mounted to the wall to replicate a real wall plate. But you can move objects around the fixed items. For example, I could move the computer to the other side of the wall plate.

Find Objects on the Shelf 02:59-04:30
So, once you've familiarized yourself with the items within the Workspace, you need to go over here, to the Shelf, and use the categories displayed to find the objects required to complete the Scenario.

If you're looking at an item on the Shelf and you're not really sure what it is, or you need a better idea of how it functions, you can click on the Details link for that object. For example, I can click the Details link for the video cable here. When I do, an overview of the cable is displayed. Notice, for this particular object, we can see the cable itself. We can see each connector, and I can look at the front, back, and top of the connector. Also, notice that when I click an item on the Shelf, it's displayed down here, in the Selected Component window, and we can access the same information using the Details links down here. Being able to view the details of a particular object on the Shelf is very useful because it helps you verify the object you've selected is actually the correct object for the particular requirements of the Scenario.

And I should point out here that, with some objects, when you view their details, you'll see an additional tab called the Specifications tab, which opens a window that provides more information. Right now, we don't have an object on the Shelf or in the Workspace that has a specification tab, but some do (for example, a motherboard will have a specifications tab). The information in the Specifications tab is similar to what you might find in a user manual for that particular item. Go ahead and close this window.

Add Items to the Workspace 04:30-05:29
Before we can work with an object within the Workspace, we have to add it to the Workspace or connect it to an item that's already there. For example, to add this monitor to the Workspace, we'll expand Monitors and then and drag it over here. Notice, when I do this, you can see yellow lines appear that tell me where I can drop the monitor in relation to the other objects that are already within the Workspace. So, in this case, I want to add the monitor to the Workspace right next to the PC system itself, so I'm going to drop it right here. And now that object is added to the Workspace.

Once the object is in the Workspace, I can manipulate it to accomplish the tasks in the Scenario. In this example, I need to look at the back of the monitor, and I need to use cables to connect this monitor to the computer system and the power outlet. Let's look at the back of the computer as well as the monitor. By doing this, I can see the various connectors that are implemented on the monitor and on the PC system.

Connect Devices 05:29-08:11
With this done, now I need to use the appropriate cables to connect these two devices together and connect the monitor to the power outlet. Let's go over here and expand Cables, and let's connect the monitor to the computer system using a video cable. I can click on the video cable so that it appears down here, in the Selected Components window. Let's grab each connector and add it to the appropriate port on the back of the computer and on the back of the monitor. Let's drag this connector to the monitor.

Notice here that there are three different ports available on the monitor, and as I hover over each port, it's outlined in blue. That blue rectangle tells me that this is a potential place where you could connect this particular device. It doesn't mean it's the right connector--it just means that it's an option you could use. In this case, I'm dealing with an HDMI connector, so I need to make sure that I drag and drop it onto an HDMI port, right here. I'll release the mouse, and now, one end of the connector is connected to the monitor. If we look at the status of the connector down here, you can see that one end is now connected to the monitor. The other is still unconnected. And notice when I did that, the partial connections window is displayed. You'll always see this partial connection window when one end of a cable is connected, but the other end isn't connected to anything.

Now, we need to connect the other end of the cable to the PC system. So, I'm going to click and drag. And just like with the other end of the cable, I need to pick the right port to connect it to, and now it's connected. Once again, the status of the cable is updated down here, in the Selected Components window. One end is connected to the computer, the other to the monitor.

Now, you might be wondering, what happens if I drop this connector on an incompatible connector? When you do, an error is displayed down here, saying, "Hey you can't connect that there." Let's go ahead and put it back on the correct port. So, that's one way you can connect devices together using an item from the Shelf.

There's another way to do it as well, and that's to drag the cable directly from the Shelf and then drop it on the appropriate connector. In this case, I'm going to drag the power connector, and I'm going to drop it on the power socket on the monitor. Now, notice that this cable has two different connectors; we have a female connector and a male connector. The simulator doesn't know which end of that cable I want to connect to this particular connector on the monitor. It brings up a list of possibilities, and I have to tell it which one I want to use. Let's go ahead and use the AC power female connector. And that end is now connected to the monitor itself, and let's plug the other end into the power strip.

Turn on the Computer 08:11-08:43
So, at this point, we've applied power to the monitor, and we've connected it to the PC. Now, let's go ahead and switch to the front view of the monitor and the front view of the PC. And just like in real life, before I can use either of these components, I have to turn them on. Let's turn on the monitor. If you hover over the Power button, you'll notice that it's highlighted in blue. I'm going to click it to turn the monitor on. Let's go over to the computer and power it on as well. When I do, the system comes on, and we switch into the operating system view of the computer.

Operating System View 08:43-09:57
And as you can see, we have a full simulated Windows environment. It's not a real Windows system--it's a simulated Windows desktop. However, it does function in pretty much the same way a real Windows desktop would. For example, I could come over here, to the Start button, and click on it. When I do, all of the things that you would expect to see in the Start menu are displayed. For example, I have my Settings. I can view a list of the installed applications on the system. And I have my tiles over here. I can come down and search for Control Panel and go up and click on it. When I do, Control Panel is displayed, just like it would be on a real Windows system. And using the various links in the Control Panel, I can go ahead and configure this simulated workstation. For example, I could go down here, to Hardware and Sound, and I could use this link, right here, to add a new printer to the system. The steps that you need to take within the simulation are exactly the same ones that you would need to take on a real Windows system.

Now, I do need to point out that as you go through the lab exercise, you'll see that not everything in the Windows interface is going to be enabled. If a feature isn't necessary for a lab, it's not enabled. The components you do need to complete the Scenario will be enabled.

Workspace / Other Views 09:57-10:08
Now, while the computer is on and running, you can switch back to the Workspace and view the hardware by clicking on the Hardware button for the particular device. This will switch you between the different views.

Move Objects to the Shelf 10:08-11:43
Now, in addition to moving objects from the Shelf into the Workspace, I can do just the opposite. I can take an object that's currently in the Workspace and return it back to the Shelf. To do this, all you have to do is click on the object, like the monitor here, and then drag it over to the Shelf and drop it. Notice that when I do this, an error message is displayed. It's basically telling us, "Hey, I can't be moved back to the Shelf because I'm still plugged in." It's connected to the power cable, and it's also connected to the DVI cable. And it's warning us that if we fail to unplug all these cables, we can't put it back on the Shelf. This is also simulating real life. You wouldn't grab a monitor that still had a power cable and video cable connected to it and drop it on a shelf, right? Before we can put this item back on the Shelf, we've got to unplug everything. Click OK here. To unplug a cable, simply click on it, drag it off, and drop it somewhere within the Workspace. For example, if I unplug the power cable from the back of the monitor, we see that its status changes to Unconnected. We have to do the same thing with the video cable. I'll click it, drag it off, and drop it, and its status changes to Unconnected as well.

At this point, there are no more connections to the monitor, so I can drop it back over here, on the Shelf. And please be aware that there are some items that you can't move to the Shelf. A good example would be the wall plate connectors. Just as in real life, you couldn't grab a wall plate connector, rip it out of the wall, and put it on the Shelf (at least, not very easily). You can't do that in the simulation either.

Evaluate the Lab 11:43-13:41
Now, once you've completed all the tasks in the Scenario, you're ready to submit the lab for evaluation. However, I recommend that before you do this, you go back over to your Scenario and quickly review all the tasks that you're expected to complete and double check to make sure that everything's done as required. Once you've identified that you've done everything that was required, go up here and click on Score Lab. When you do, it's going to evaluate whether or not you did everything correctly.

Notice here, we have a list of tasks that I was required to perform by the scenario, and it's listed here, under Task Summary. Over here, we have an icon that tells me whether or not I did each one. If I didn't do a particular task, I see a red X. If I did complete a task, it would be denoted with a green icon. Now notice, in this scenario, I didn't do everything that was required. I initially had the monitor on the Workspace, but I took it off, so it evaluated as incorrect. And because I unplugged the monitor's video cable and power cable, I got those wrong, as well.

Now, this last task is actually a multi-item task, meaning I had to complete several different sub-tasks in order to get this task correct. To see what those sub-tasks are, I click on Show Details, and it tells me I needed to turn on the computer. I did that--notice the green icon. But I'm also supposed to turn on the monitor. I got that wrong. Why? Because I originally had it on, but then I turned it off and put it back on the Shelf. And, as a result, I didn't get it right.

Now, down here under, the task summary, is the explanation. The explanation part of the lab report provides step-by-step instructions for actually completing the tasks in the Scenario. There are, of course, many ways to complete some of these tasks. The steps listed here provide just one suggested way.

Go ahead and click Done.

Now I'm going to pause the recording while I restart the lab.

All right.

Change Locations 13:41-14:47
Before we end this demonstration, there's one more thing I want to show you. Come over here in the Scenario. It tells us that once we've completed the tasks in the Scenario, feel free to explore the hardware and operating system interfaces within the lab. You can click Floor 1 Overview to review the rest of the office network, right here. Understand that this computer is just one system within an entire office complex.

If you want to view the other systems within the office, you can click on the Floor 1 Overview. When I do, I see a floor plan of the organization, and each room in the floor plan has a name. I'm currently in IT administration. I know that because the name of the room is in orange. Within each room, there's a list of the hardware and operating systems running in that office. For example, in Office 1, we have a computer. It's running Windows, and the name of the system is Office1. Over here, in the Networking Closet, we have a server running, and its name is CorpServer. I can use all of these icons to switch to either the hardware or the operating system view for the computer equipment in these different locations.

Summary 14:47-14:56
That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we looked at the TestOut lab simulator.

## 1.3.2 Labsim Features

Explore the New Lab Features 00:04-01:19
In this demonstration, we're going to spend a few minutes talking about the lab exercises in this course. You may be familiar with LabSim already, but in this course, we're introducing a few new features, so you'll want to watch this demo.

When you start a lab exercise, you'll generally see a screen like this. We have a simulated a Kali Linux environment. Let's take a look at it. If you want to complete the lab and get everything right, you should read through this scenario very carefully. It'll usually begin by setting up the situation. It's telling you what's happened and what we're trying to do in the demo. Down here, it'll give you the specific tasks that you need to complete. For this lab, we need to crack the password on the Support computer and then crack the password on the ZIP file.

As you go through this lab exercise, you need to make sure that you complete each and every one of these requirements. When you're done with the lab, each task is evaluated, and how many you completed determines your score.

So, as you're working through the lab exercise, it's a really good idea to mentally check and say, "Okay, did I do this one? Yes. Did I do this one? Yes." If you've done everything listed here according to the scenario, you'll pass the lab exercise.

New Features 01:19-02:37
Now, our new lab features in this course are questions and copy and paste.

Let's start with questions. You may be required to perform a task and look for something specific. Over here, you'll see the Answer Questions tab. I have two questions that I'll need to answer while doing this lab. It's a very good idea to open this right after you read the scenario so you know what you're looking for while you perform the steps. This particular lab wants you to enter the password for the Linux Computer and the password for the protected.zip file.

Okay, now let's move on to the copy and paste feature. Let's open a terminal, and I'll type in 'ifconfig'. Now let's say, for example, that I want to copy and paste this MAC address, here. I can just highlight it like this, come down here, and right-click. When I do, it'll paste the text right here. Be aware you don't get a menu that asks you to paste; it just pastes the text when you right-click.

If there's some text over in the scenario, let's say a long password, you can also copy that and paste it somewhere else. So, as soon as I highlight the text, it's copied to the clipboard. Come over here, right-click, and it's pasted in. Let's close the terminal.

Programs Included 02:37-05:18
Now, within each lab, not everything is actually enabled within the simulation, only the components that you'll need to complete the scenario. So you might click on something and find that it doesn't actually work, or it might not do what you think it should do.

But we're going to look at some of the things that do work in this lab. Over here, we have our Favorite programs. The top one, here, is the Terminal. I'll open that up again. Now, be aware that many of the programs that come with Kali Linux and are launched from the terminal. For example, if the lab says to use nmap to do a scan, I can do that from here. Let's check our IP address really quick. I can do that by typing 'ifconfig' and pressing Enter. Right here, I can see my IP address of 192.168.0.45. We can also type 'ip addr' and press Enter to get our IP address.

Remember we launch nmap from the terminal; let's do that now. Just type in 'nmap' and press Enter. When you do that, you get a list of parameters that you can use. Right here are some examples of how to use nmap. Now let's scan our subnet. For that, type 'nmap 192.168.0.0/24' and press Enter. We just did a quick default nmap scan of our subnet, and we found all these devices that are live on the subnet.

To launch Metasploit, we'll type 'msfconsole' and press Enter, and it's launched.

Okay, let's close the terminal and look at a few of the GUI tools that are simulated. We have Ettercap here. There will be labs that require you to use Ettercap in the course. Let's close that and open up the next one, Zenmap.

Zenmap is basically a GUI version of nmap. It's used to scan networks. Let's close this and go to the next one, Wireshark.

To start a scan, we select our interface and click the shark fin up here. Let's open the terminal. I'll do an 'ifconfig' to confirm my IP address and ping this machine, so let's type in 'ping 192.168.0.45' and press Enter.

Now let's go back to Wireshark and filter by ICMP, or our ping traffic, by typing in 'icmp' in the filter field. You can see we're getting all this ICMP traffic in Wireshark.

Let's go ahead and close these.

The Simulated Environment 05:18-06:38
Be aware that you may be required to open multiple programs or perform tasks on multiple systems. If this is the case, the scenario will tell you. This particular scenario only requires us to work on this one system, but there will be scenarios that will ask you to work on one, two, or more different systems. You might be asking, how do I change between systems? What you need to do is come up to the overview button, right here, and click on it. When you do, the entire office environment is displayed. The current system that you're working on is highlighted. Notice, down here, that the last system I was working on was named IT-Laptop. If you need to change to a different system somewhere else in the office, locate the appropriate system in the diagram, and then just click on it. For example, I'll click on the Office1 system. Now notice I'm in a different office, working on a completely different system. Let's go the IT-Laptop system.

Since this is a simulated environment, keep in mind that keyboard shortcuts might not work as expected. So, for example, if you want to enter Ctrl+Alt+Delete, you'll be sending that command to the actual system you're on, not the simulated system. Always look for text that lets you know how to perform the alternative to shortcuts; it's typically down here, at the bottom.

Complete the Lab 06:38-09:45
Now that we've looked at some of the new features, let's complete this lab. This lab tells us to crack some passwords with John the Ripper. I'll open the terminal and, at the prompt, I'll type in 'cd /usr/share/john' and press Enter. Now let's see what's in the folder. I'll type in 'ls' to do that.

One of the things I want to look at is the password.lst file. This will contain a list of passwords that John the Ripper will use to try to brute force and crack the system with. You can add to this list, delete passwords, and so on. To view the contents, I'll type in 'cat password.lst' and press Enter, and you can see the list is displayed. This is a short list of passwords, so be aware that normally, this will contain tens of thousands of passwords. I'll type 'cd' to get back to root, here, and then 'clear' to clear the screen.

To crack the password on the system, I'll type in 'john /etc/shadow' and press Enter. In this course, we'll learn that with Linux, the password is actually kept in the shadow file. Right up here, we can see that our password was cracked. As you might remember, that was one of the questions we need to answer, so let's click on Answer Questions. I'll type in my answer and minimize that box. I'll clear this screen again.

Down here, it says once you've cracked the password, you can't crack it a second time, so let's see if that's true. I'll type in 'john /etc/shadow' and press Enter, and this time, it's telling me there are no password hashes left to crack.

It also tells me that the results are located in the john.pot file, so let's look in there to view the password, just in case we forgot to answer our question. For that, I'll type in 'cat ./.john/john.pot', press Enter, and here are the results. An alternative is to type in 'john /etc/shadow/ --show', and you can see the password results again.

The next step says to crack the password of the protected.zip file on the IT-Laptop. Let's say, for some reason, we don't complete this part. I'll go back up to Answer Questions, type in an answer for the second password, and click on Score Lab, down here.

My results are displayed. I got 1 out of 4 complete, or 25%. I've been in the lab for about 30 minutes. Down here, it says I didn't correctly crack the password; however, I did correctly type in the right password as an answer. I didn't even attempt this next part, and I typed in some random answer right here. And down here is the real answer.

If I'm having issues, I can come down here, read this explanation, and review the correct steps I would need to take to complete the lab.

I can scroll down and click on the Done button; the grades are recorded in the gradebook.

Summary 09:45-10:19
That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we talked about how to complete the lab exercises in this course. We looked at the scenario. We looked at the simulated Kali Linux environment. We discussed some new features in Labsim.

We talked about how to complete tasks within the environment. We talked about how to switch between systems. We also talked about some key things you need to keep in mind when you're working in the simulated environment. We ended this demonstration by discussing how the labs are scored.
