---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.5 Cloud Security
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How can I secure my data in the cloud?
    </li>
    <li>
     How do cloud networks work?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the role of segmentation in cloud security?
    </li>
    <li>
     How do cloud-based firewalls work? Why are they important for security?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Recognize how cloud security controls protect data.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure permissions and encryption for cloud data.
    </li>
    <li>
     Identify how cloud networks can be used to protect data.
    </li>
    <li>
     Protect data with cloud firewalls.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Cloud access security broker (CASB)
    </td>
    <td>
     An on-premises cloud-based software tool or service that sits between an organization and a cloud
        service provider.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual networks
    </td>
    <td>
     Virtual machines and devices connected through software.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Segmentation
    </td>
    <td>
     The division of a network into smaller networks through a virtual local area network (VLAN) and
        firewalls.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Security group
    </td>
    <td>
     A security group works like a firewall to control traffic to and from network resources.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint
    </td>
    <td>
     A virtual device that provides a private connection between virtual private clouds and a cloud
        provider's services. A VPC endpoint keeps traffic secure with a private link resource.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Container
    </td>
    <td>
     A standard unit of software that holds the complete runtime environment including an application, all
        application dependencies, libraries, binaries, and configuration files.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cloud-based firewall
    </td>
    <td>
     A software network device that is deployed in the cloud that protects against unwanted access to a
        private network.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     3.0 Host and Application Defense
     <blockquote>
      3.2 Implement Application Defenses
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.6 Given a scenario, apply cybersecurity solutions to the cloud
     <ul>
      <li>
       Cloud security controls
       <ul>
        <li>
         High availability across zones
        </li>
        <li>
         Resource policies
        </li>
        <li>
         Secrets management
        </li>
        <li>
         Integration and auditing
        </li>
        <li>
         Storage
         <ul>
          <li>
           Permissions
          </li>
          <li>
           Encryption
          </li>
          <li>
           Replication
          </li>
          <li>
           High availability
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Network
         <ul>
          <li>
           Virtual networks
          </li>
          <li>
           Public and private subnets
          </li>
          <li>
           Segmentation
          </li>
          <li>
           API inspection and integration
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Compute
         <ul>
          <li>
           Security groups
          </li>
          <li>
           Dynamic resource allocation
          </li>
          <li>
           Instance awareness
          </li>
          <li>
           Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint
          </li>
          <li>
           Container security
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Solutions
       <ul>
        <li>
         CASB
        </li>
        <li>
         Application security
        </li>
        <li>
         Next-generation secure web gateway (SWG)
        </li>
        <li>
         Firewall considerations in a cloud environment
         <ul>
          <li>
           Cost
          </li>
          <li>
           Need for segmentation
          </li>
          <li>
           Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) layers
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Cloud native controls vs. third-party solutions.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
    
## 9.5.1 Cloud Security Controls (Part 1)

### Cloud Security Controls 00:04-00:31

In this lesson, I'll go over some cloud security controls and cloud storage principles. Most organizations today already rely on cloud services or will at least need to in the future. Cloud services provide many benefits, but there are risks involved when you trust your data to an outside source. So to safeguard against vulnerabilities, you can utilize cloud security controls. I'll start by looking at different aspects you might need to consider when you choose a cloud service provider and how these can impact your data security.

### High Availability Across Zones 00:31-00:56

First, it's important to have a provider that offers services and resources across zones. It can feel risky to store your data with a third party, but one great benefit of cloud service providers is that they replicate your data in multiple zones to provide high availability. This replication helps eliminate downtime, or the timespan that you're unable to access your data. If one zone fails, the cloud service seamlessly redirects you to another available zone.

### Availability Percentage 00:56-01:12

When you start selecting your cloud service provider, you can compare each provider's availability percentage. This is calculated by dividing the uptime by the uptime plus the downtime. So the better a provider designs themselves to recover from failures, the higher their availability percentage and the more reliable they are.

### Resource Policies 01:12-01:23

Next, having strong security policies helps protect your actual data. This does get more complicated when you're working with a cloud service provider, so here are a few steps on how to approach this challenge.

### Security Policies 01:23-02:11

First, secure the root account by creating an administrative group that's assigned account rights. Don't give these rights to any individual users or any other groups. Use groups to control access levels to files and programs. Next, check with the provider for firewall protection from external sources or provide your own. Then, utilize log monitoring and analysis tools offered by your provider. Or again, you can use your own customized ones. These can be a great resource to flag potential attacks. It's also a best practice to audit security regularly to make sure policies and configurations are performing as expected. And as always, update your components as soon as updates become available to ensure that you're always protected against the most current cyberattacks. Attackers never give up, so don't become complacent.

### Secrets Management 02:11-02:37

Now, let's look more closely at secrets management. Secrets management is a method for managing authentication credentials like passwords, encryption keys, usernames, email addresses, private certificates, and more. When you manage secrets in a large organization that can possibly span several countries, it becomes essential to centralize all secrets across your network and use one, singular tool. This is even a good idea for small organizations.

### Secrets Management 02:37-03:03

You can ensure password security through regular rotation, complexity, and password expiration. Be sure to remove default passwords and hard-coded credentials from applications, code files, tests, and production builds. Default and hard-coded credentials are easy targets for hackers. Also, keep in mind that access needs can change throughout testing and production cycles. So regular permission auditing helps to ensure that the correct permissions are always in place.

### Cloud Auditors 03:03-03:24

Next, we have cloud auditors. These are great tools for making sure your cloud environment is secure because cloud auditors evaluate cloud provider security controls, performance, communication, risk management, data management, vulnerability and remediation management, and privacy. Auditing can also check for compliance with regulation and security policies.

### Cloud Integration 03:24-03:52

Another aspect to consider is cloud integration. Cloud integration is the system that connects application repositories, systems, and IT environments in a way that allows access and data exchange by multiple devices over a network. This can include cloud-to-on-premises integration, cloud-to-cloud integration, or both. Your organization's systems must be tightly integrated to the cloud provider to preserve secure communication in your digital environment.

### Cloud Storage Permissions 03:52-04:00

Now, let's discuss some considerations when it comes to cloud storage. Configuring your permissions correctly is very important to your cloud data security.

### Cloud Storage Permissions 04:00-04:21

You can use buckets to manage permissions, which are containers that store your data. Applying permissions to a bucket can help you manage who has access to data sets. You might need to make a bucket globally readable during a project's initial stages, but it'll most likely need tighter permissions for the next stages. Remember to always practice the principle of least privilege with cloud storage.

### Cloud Storage Encryption 04:21-04:56

Finally, just as you would use encryption for in-house data storage, cloud encryption is just as critical. Cloud service providers protect their customers' data by changing it to cyphertext. With cloud encryption, it's your responsibility to familiarize yourself with your provider's policies and procedures to ensure that they meet your security standards. Some cloud service providers offer encryption before the data is transferred to the cloud, while others don't. Some only offer end-to-end encryption for sensitive data. Be sure to encrypt your data in house before it's transferred to the cloud if that's not a part of the service you chose.

### Summary 04:56-05:25

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we covered cloud security controls. We looked at high availability across zones, replication, security policies, secrets management, and auditing and integration. Then we covered cloud storage permissions and encryption. By becoming familiar with these cloud service aspects and implementing these security practices, you can utilize the benefits of cloud services while maintaining your organization's security.

## 9.5.2 Cloud Security Controls (Part 2)

### Cloud Security Controls Part 2 00:00-00:18

In this video, we're going to discuss the network and computing aspects of cloud security control. To understand how to secure your applications and data in the cloud, it helps to understand how cloud computing works.

Let's start with virtual networks.

### Virtual Networks 00:18-01:20

Virtual networks connect virtual machines and devices through software. Network virtualization also includes the combination of network hardware resources and network software resources into one unit. A virtual network has a physical underlay that's made of physical servers and routers. It also has an overlay. This overlay is connected to the underlay through a router.

The underlay has routers and bridges for controlling traffic. In the overlay, there are virtual routers and bridges that connect the VMs within the virtual network. Segments are used in the virtual network to reduce traffic and create separate areas for increased protection. Firewalls can also be used in the virtual network to protect segments through micro-segmentation.

The benefits of virtual networking include limiting costs and increasing security control. In a virtual network, you can create virtual machines, routers, bridges, and firewalls to suit your needs without incurring the cost of physical hardware. Virtual networks protect resources by limiting access to them, as most of the network functions in an isolated environment.

### Public and Private Subnets 01:20-02:01

Next, we have public and private subnets. Subnets are subdivisions of an IP network. Public subnets can send outbound traffic directly to the internet. Private subnets access the internet through a network address translation gateway, or NAT gateway, within a public subnet. Database servers can connect to the internet through a NAT gateway, but no ingress internet connections are established directly to the database servers. You can control access to items in your network more tightly through subnetting. By having divisions in your network, you limit traffic, exposure, and potential damage from an attack. For example, if an attacker gains access or inserts malicious code into one subnet, the attack can't spread any further.

### API Inspection and Integration 02:01-02:32

Now let's look at API inspection and integration. APIs are the software that allow applications and cloud computing systems to communicate with each other. If you want to book a hotel room for your vacation, you'll likely search for room availability in the area. An API will interact with a hotel's database to retrieve the information and return it to you. Keep in mind that when the API is helping your organization communicate with customers or others that you're seeking interactions with, you're responsible for securing the API's integration point in your network.

### API Integration and Inspection 02:32-02:58

How do you do that? You inspect API integration points regularly. Here are some things to check for. First, make sure that the user is required to provide authentication to gain access. Next, determine the functions and operations that are necessary for each user and only authorize what's required. Always

restrict users from unnecessary roles. Then scan payloads and validate API schemas to prevent injection attacks and man-in-the-middle attacks.

### Security Groups 02:58-03:48

Another tool in cloud security is the security group. A security group works like a firewall, controlling traffic to and from instances. Security groups use restrictive ACLs, or access control lists, to allow only ingress traffic from specific IPs and to specific ports that are prepared for connection through an application. Make sure to regularly check security group policies to ensure they're only allowing traffic from acceptable addresses based on your organization's policies and purposes.

It's especially important not to allow incoming traffic to connect to the SSH port 22. This open port could allow hackers to gain access to your databases in the cloud or to compromise the SSH service. Likewise, you should use security groups to block internet traffic to RDP port 3389, as the Remote Desktop Protocol is a favorite tool of attackers.

### Instance Awareness 03:48-04:09

Now let's move on to instance awareness. This is the ability to apply cloud security within an application that's specific to different instances, and it goes hand in hand with security groups. It allows the user to set security rules for instances where an app is interacting with one organization and set different security rules for instances interacting with another organization.

### VPC Endpoints 04:09-04:27

Next, we have VPC endpoints. Virtual private cloud endpoints provide a private connection between virtual private clouds and a cloud provider's services, keeping traffic secure with a private link resource. This improves cloud security because VPC resources never traverse the internet to reach a service.

### Container Security 04:27-04:40

Finally, let's look at container security. A container holds the complete runtime environment, including an application and all its dependencies, libraries, binaries, and configuration files in one unit.

### Container Security 04:40-05:05

This allows software to function properly when moved from one computing environment to another. This could be from a personal laptop to a testing environment, and then to a production environment. Another benefit is that multiple applications within containers can be running on a server on a single operating system. Each container shares the OS kernel with the other containers. Because of this, containers use fewer resources than a virtual machine, making them lightweight.

### Container Security 05:05-05:35

If there's a vulnerability in a container host kernel, it could open a way for attack on the other containers that share the host kernel. To guard against this vulnerability, many container systems include a signing requirement to confirm the author and guarantee uncorrupted code. This allows administrators to protect their containers by signing container images, preventing untrusted containers from being deployed. Container providers can also scan containers for exploitable vulnerabilities and notify the admin when they're detected.

### Summary 05:35-05:57

And that's it for this video. In this lesson, we covered more aspects of cloud security and computing. We looked at virtual networks, subnets, segmentation, API inspection and integration. We talked security groups, including instance awareness and VPC endpoints. We finished by discussing container security.

## 9.5.3 Cloud Security Controls Facts

Most organizations rely on cloud services or will in the future. Cloud services provide many benefits, but there are risks involved when data security is the responsibility of an outside source. To safeguard against vulnerabilities, implement a cloud security strategy.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Cloud security concepts
- Network security concepts
- Cloud access

### Cloud Security Concepts

The following table describes cloud security concepts.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Cloud Security Concept
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     High availability across zones
    </td>
    <td>
     Cloud service providers replicate data in multiple zones and within zones to provide high
        availability. Replication:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Helps eliminate downtime (the time your data is unavailable).
      </li>
      <li>
       Redirects to another availability zone, when a zone fails.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      To determine the best provider for your organization, compare cloud service providers' availability percentages.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Availability percentage = uptime/uptime + downtime.
      </li>
      <li>
       The higher the percentage, the more resilient and reliable a provider is.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Integration
    </td>
    <td>
     Cloud integration is the system that connects application repositories, systems, and IT environments in
        a way that allows access and exchange of data over a network by multiple devices and locations. This can include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Cloud-to-on-premises integration
      </li>
      <li>
       Cloud-to-cloud integration
      </li>
      <li>
       Both cloud-to-on-premises integration and cloud-to-cloud integration
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      Your organization’s systems must be tightly integrated to the cloud provider to preserve secure communication in the
        digital system.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Encryption
    </td>
    <td>
     Cloud service providers protect a customer’s data by changing it to ciphertext. It is your responsibility to:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Be familiar with your cloud service provider's encryption services. Some cloud service providers offer encryption before the data is transferred to the cloud, some
              do not, and some offer end-to-end encryption only for sensitive data.
      </li>
      <li>
       Familiarize yourself with your provider’s encryption
              policies and procedures to ensure they meet your security requirements.
      </li>
      <li>
       Encrypt your data in-house before it’s transferred to the cloud if encryption is not
              part of the service you chose.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr><td>
    Instance awareness
   </td>
   <td>
    Instance awareness is the ability to apply cloud security within an application that has rules specific to an instance.
    <p>
     This tool allows the user to set security rules for an instance of an app interacting with one organization and
        a different security rules for an instance of the app is interacting with another organization.
    </p>
   </td>
   </tr><tr>
    <td>
     Virtual private cloud (VPC) endpoint
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      VPC endpoint
     </i>
     is a virtual device that provides a private connection between virtual private clouds and a cloud
        provider’s services. A VPC keeps traffic secure with a private link resource.
     <p>
      VPC endpoints improve cloud security because VPC resources never traverse the internet to reach a service.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cloud security infrastructure
    </td>
    <td>
     To ensure your cloud service provider has and maintains a strong security infrastructure:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Verify the provider's firewall protection from external sources. If the firewall is inadequate, provide your own.
       </li><li>
        Verify the log monitoring and analysis tools offered by your provider.
       </li>
      
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cloud auditing
    </td>
    <td>
     Cloud auditors evaluate:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Security controls
      </li>
      <li>
       Performance
      </li>
      <li>
       Communication
      </li>
      <li>
       Risk management
      </li>
      <li>
       Data management
      </li>
      <li>
       Vulnerability and remediation management
      </li>
      <li>
       Privacy of cloud provider's services
      </li>
      <li>
       Compliance with regulation and security policies
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
    </tr><tr>
     <td>
      Application programming interfaces (API) inspections and integration
     </td>
     <td>
      APIs are the software that allows applications and cloud
        computing systems to communicate with each other. You should&nbsp;regularly inspect the API integration points to:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Ensure authentication is required from the end user before access is given.
       </li>
       <li>
        Determine the functions or operations necessary for each user and authorize only those functions or operations.
       </li>
       <li>
        Restrict users from using unnecessary roles.
       </li>
       <li>
        Scan payloads and validate API schemas to prevent injection attacks or man-in-the-middle attacks.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   
  </tbody></table>

### Network Concepts

To understand how to secure your applications and data in the cloud, it helps to understand network concepts that enhance security.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Network Concepts
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Virtual networks
    </td>
    <td>
     Virtual networks connect virtual machines and devices through software. Network virtualization can also
        include combining network hardware resources and network software resources into one unit.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Virtual networks have a physical underlay that is made of physical servers and routers. Underlays use bridges and routers for traffic.
      </li>
      <li>
       Virtual networks also have overlays that are connected to the underlay through a router.
          Overlays have virtual routers and bridges that connect the virtual machines within the virtual network.
      </li>
      <li>
       Tunnel endpoints (TEPs) connect encapsulated data from the virtual network to physical network
          servers.
      </li>
      <li>
       Segments are used in the virtual network to reduce traffic and keep areas within the virtual network separate.
      </li>
      <li>
       Firewalls can also be used in the virtual network to protect segments through micro segmentation.
      </li>
      <li>
       Virtual networks provide limited access to resources because most of the network functions in an isolated
          environment.
      </li>
      <li>
       Virtual networks:
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Limit costs.
       </li>
       <li>
        Allow you to create the virtual machines, routers, bridges, and firewalls to suit your needs.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Public and private subnets
    </td>
    <td>
     Subnets are subdivisions of an IP network.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Public subnets can send outbound traffic directly to the internet.
      </li>
      <li>
       Private subnets access the internet through a network address translation (NAT) gateway within a public subnet.
          Database servers can connect to the internet through a NAT gateway, but internet connections are not established
            directly to the database servers.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      Subnets, give you greater control over who has access to your network.
        Dividing your network limits traffic, exposure, and potential damage from an attack. For example, if an attacker gains access or inserts malicious code into one subnet, the attack is confined to
        that subnet.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Segmentation
    </td>
    <td>
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      Segmentation
     </i>
     divides a network into network segments using a Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN) and
        firewalls. To protect segments, filter traffic between segments with a deny all statement and then add rules to allow necessary
        traffic.
     <p>
      Segmentation:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Aids in monitoring traffic for security issues.
      </li>
      <li>
       Limits any damage to the compromised segment.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Cloud Storage Access

Standard security access measures are even more important when using cloud computing. The following table describes security access measures to implement when using cloud computing.

<table>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Security groups
     </td>
     <td>
      A
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       security group
      </i>
      is a group of files that is assigned a unique name. The security group is controlled through
        permissions and works like a firewall that controls traffic to and from instances.
      <p>
       Security groups use restrictive access control lists (ACLs) to allow ingress traffic only from specific IPs and to
        specific ports that are prepared through an application for connection. When using security groups:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Regularly check security group policies to ensure they are allowing traffic only from acceptable addresses based on
          the organization's policies and purposes.
       </li>
       <li>
        Never allow incoming traffic to connect to the SSH port 22.
       </li>
       <li>
        Never allow incoming traffic to connect to RDP port 3389.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Container security
     </td>
     <td>
      A
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       container
      </i>
      holds the complete runtime environment including an application, its dependencies, libraries, 
        other binaries, and configuration files, all in one unit. Benefits of containers include:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Containers allow software to function properly when moved from one computing environment to another.
       </li>
       <li>
        Multiple applications within containers can run on a server using the same operating system.
       </li>
       <li>
        Each container shares the OS kernel with the other containers. This requires fewer resources than a virtual machine.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Root account security
     </td>
     <td>
      To secure the root account:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Create an administrative group and assign rights to it.
       </li>
       <li>
        Do not give rights to any other groups or individual users.
       </li>
       <li>
        Use groups to control the level of access to files and programs.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Secrets management
     </td>
     <td>
      Secrets management is the method for managing authentication credentials which can include passwords,
        encryption keys, usernames, email addresses, and private certificates. To secure secrets:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Centralize all secrets across your network using one tool for management.
       </li>
       <li>
        Ensure password security through:
       </li>
       <ul>
        <li>
         Regular rotation
        </li>
        <li>
         Complexity
        </li>
        <li>
         Password expirations
        </li>
       </ul>
       <li>
        Remove default and hardcoded credentials from:
       </li>
       <ul>
        <li>
         Applications
        </li>
        <li>
         Code files
        </li>
        <li>
         Test builds
        </li>
        <li>
         Production builds
        </li>
       </ul>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Permission management
     </td>
     <td>
      Configuring permissions is essential in cloud data security.
      <ul>
       <li>
        To manage permissions, you can use buckets, which are containers that store your data.
       </li>
       <li>
        Applying permissions to a bucket can help you manage who has access to sets of data. For example, a bucket may need to be globally readable at the first stage of a project, but it will need tighter
            permissions at the next stage.
       </li>
       <div class="info" data-block="
        Remember to always practice the principle of least privilege with cloud storage.
       "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
        Remember to always practice the principle of least privilege with cloud storage.
       </span></div></div></div></div>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 9.5.4 Cloud Security Solutions

### Cloud Security Solutions 00:00-00:25

In this lesson, we'll look at some important cloud security solutions. While cloud service providers play role in security, it's ultimately your organization's responsibility. If there's a breach in your data within your cloud service provider's application, the responsibility for it will fall on you as your company's security professional. With that in mind, let's look at some options for preventing data breaches.

### Cloud Access Security Broker 00:25-00:52

An essential cloud security tool is a Cloud Access Security Broker, or CASB, which is an on-premises, cloud-based software tool or service that sits between an organization and a cloud service provider. It monitors communication for compliance with your organization's security policies and procedures. It can also offer security to help prevent attacks through malware protection and data encryption. CASBs offer granular protection and monitoring capabilities.

### Cloud Application Security 00:52-01:28

Cloud computing has become the norm for many organizations today, and it's become common to add applications and tools to our cloud environment. It's critical to remember to put security practices in place when you're adding each new application or tool because each one can create a vulnerability in your network.

Let's look at some best practices for securing your applications. First, be sure that your application is configured correctly. Then make sure your APIs and interfaces are secure and use encryption. Finally, ensure that access to your applications require multifactor authentication and that they have limited authorization.

### Cloud-Based Firewalls 01:28-02:23

Now, when considering whether the cost of an additional firewall in a cloud environment is worth the expense, consider the liability and damage that could be caused to your organization if you don't have one in place or if one goes down. Look at your cloud applications and services, which would be at risk without the extra protection of the firewall.

Another consideration is the cost of not properly configuring your cloud firewall. A misconfigured firewall could leave open ports and other security holes that could inflict high costs on your organization. Having a cloud-based firewall can be far less expensive and easier to configure than your on-premises firewalls.

To help lower the expense, you can also select a managed firewall service that charges by usage. And finally, when it comes to your cloud-based firewalls, be sure to keep up on your annual maintenance agreements. Letting them slide could put your organization at risk if your firewall misses security updates.

The next security option is segmentation.

### Segmentation 02:23-04:07

To protect your valuable data, implement internal segmented firewalls and access control lists to control which users have access to each segment. Network segmentation allows you to practice the principle

least privilege by partitioning networks into trust zones. This gives you control so that users can access the resources they need, but they can't access areas they don't need.

Become familiar with the software-defining networking methods and network segmentation tools provided by your cloud provider so you can utilize what they offer. You can also use segmentation tools, which can include firewall rule sets and load balancers, to regulate which IP addresses can access each network segment. Additionally, segmentation limits the spread of an attack to only the compromised segment.

Next, let's look at how firewalls work in the Open System Interconnection Model, or OSI layers. Application layer firewalls work on the seventh layer of the OSI model. They're considered third-generation firewalls. These firewalls work by inspecting ingress and egress packets and blocking any that don't meet the rule requirements. At the top layer of the model, the Application layer firewall protects the stack of layers below it as well.

Firewalls on the fourth layer, the Transport layer, are called stateful firewalls or second-generation firewalls. They log all connections and sort them by new connections or existing connections. If something's not be part of any connection, it's inspected against the firewall rules. If it fails to meet the rule requirements, it's blocked.

There are firewalls at the Network layer as well. These firewalls protect your systems from packets that come from certain IP addresses. These are first-generation firewalls, and they check the network packet's source and destination address, protocol, and destination ports.

### Secure Web Gateways 04:07-04:55

Next, let's look at secure web gateways, or SWGs. SWGs and firewalls both detect malicious traffic, but firewalls work at the packet level, while SWGs work at the application level in the cloud. SWGs are a network security service that filters malware from user-side internet connections using URL filtering, application control, data loss prevention, HTTPS inspections, and antivirus protection. SWGs are proxies between the organization and the internet. They receive requests from clients before deciding whether the session is permissible. SWGs can monitor and log all your traffic on-premises as well as in your public and private clouds. This helps you understand where your vulnerabilities are so that you can implement security and use policies intentionally.

Cloud-Native Controls vs. Third-Party Controls 04:55-05:48
To determine where to go for security solutions, look at how each option can meet your security and compliance requirements. It may be hard to know if you should use only the security controls native to the cloud service provider or if you should add a third-party security solution to meet your security needs and requirements. To make this decision, you can list all your requirements and check them against what the cloud service provider offers.

Then, for any additional requirements, you can look for third-party solutions. Be sure that the third-party options utilize the cloud provider's APIs. APIs are the predominant tool that allows the provider to communicate with other applications and services, so it's important that the third party's security approach works with the APIs. Check to make sure that there are no security gaps between your in

house security tools and the cloud service provider's security tools. Make sure that your third-party solution addresses any gaps you find.

### Summary 05:48-06:16

That's it for this video. In this lesson, we covered cloud security solutions. These included CASBs, application security, and firewalls in a cloud environment, including costs, segmentation, and OSI layer functions. Then we looked at secure web gateways and finished by discussing how to determine if you need third-party security solutions in addition to your native cloud service provider's security controls.

## 9.5.5 Cloud Security Solutions Facts

Cloud security is a responsibility of the cloud service provider, but ultimately, it’s the IT security professional’s responsibility to ensure that the organization does all it can to keep its data safe.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Cloud security solutions
- Cloud native controls vs. third-party solutions

### Cloud Security Solutions

Be familiar with the following security solutions:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Solution
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Cloud access security broker (CASB)
    </td>
    <td>
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      Cloud access security broker
     </i>
     is an on-premises cloud-based software tool or service that sits between an
        organization and a cloud service provider.
     <p>
      CASBs:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Monitor communication for compliance with an organization's security policies and procedures.
      </li>
      <li>
       Can offer malware protection and encryption.
      </li>
      <li>
       Can give more specific protection and monitoring capabilities than secure web gateways (SWGs) and enterprise
          firewalls.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Application Security
    </td>
    <td>
     Cloud computing has become the norm for many organizations today. It has become common to add
        applications and tools to the cloud environment. It’s critical to use security best practices when adding each new
        application or tool. Each additional has the potential to create a network vulnerability.
     <p>
      Application security best practices include:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Verify the application is correctly configured.
      </li>
      <li>
       Secure APIs and interfaces through encryption and multifactor authentication with limited authorization.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cloud-based firewalls
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      cloud-based firewall
     </i>
     is a software network device that is deployed in the cloud. It protects against unwanted access
        to a private network.
     <p>
      When making a decision about a cloud-based firewall, consider the following.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Cost
       <ul>
        <li>
         Liability and damage to your cloud applications and services.
        </li>
        <li>
         The cost of a misconfigured firewall. Misconfiguration includes ports left open and other security holes
            exposed.
        </li>
        <li>
         There are cloud-based firewalls available whose fees are based on usage to help lower the cost. The cost of damages
            and liability may be far higher than the cost of a firewall.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Segmentation
       <ul>
        <li>
         Implement internal segmented firewalls (ISFWs) and access control lists to control access to each segment.
        </li>
        <li>
         Use segmentation to partition networks into trust zones to limit access.
        </li>
        <li>
         Become familiar with networking methods and network segmentation tools provided by your cloud provider to optimize
            the cloud-based firewall for your organization.
        </li>
        <li>
         Use segmentation tools such as firewall rule sets and load balancers to regulate the IP addresses that can access
            network segments.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       OSI layers
       <ul>
        <li>
         Application layer firewalls work on the Layer 7 of the OSI model. They are considered to be third-generation
            firewalls.
         <ul>
          <li>
           Third generation firewalls work by inspecting inbound and outbound packets and blocking packets that don't
              meet the rule requirements.
          </li>
          <li>
           The application layer firewall protects the stack of layers below it.
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Transport layer (Layer 4) firewalls are considered to be stateful firewalls. They are referred to as
            second-generation firewalls. These firewalls:
         <ul>
          <li>
           Log all connections and sort by new connections and existing connections. If traffic is not part of any
              connection, it’s inspected against the firewall rules.
          </li>
          <li>
           Block connections that fail to meet the rule requirements.
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Network layer firewalls work on Layer 3. They are considered to be first-generation firewalls. First-generation
            firewalls:
         <ul>
          <li>
           Check the network packet’s source and destination address, protocol, and destination ports.
          </li>
          <li>
           Protect against packets coming from certain IP addresses.
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Secure Web Gateways
       <ul>
        <li>
         SWGs and firewalls both detect malicious traffic. Firewalls work at the packet level, while SWGs work at the
            application level in the cloud.
        </li>
        <li>
         SWGs are a network security service which filters malware from user-side internet connections. SWGs use URL
            filtering, application control, data loss prevention, https inspections, and antivirus protection.
        </li>
        <li>
         SWGs are proxies between the organization and the internet. They receive requests from clients before deciding if
            the session is legitimate.
        </li>
        <li>
         SWGs can monitor and log all on-premises traffic, as well as traffic in public and private clouds. This helps you
            understand where your vulnerabilities are, which allows you to implement security and use policies intentionally.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Cloud Native Controls vs. Third-party Solutions

There are a few thing to consider in choosing to implement the security controls native to the cloud service provider or to add a third-party security solution to meet your security needs and requirements. To help with this decision:

<ul>
<li>
List all requirements and check those against what your native controls offer and what the cloud service provider
    offers.
</li>
<li>
Look at how each option can meet your security and compliance requirements.
</li>
<li>
Look for third-party solutions for any unmet requirements at the native level.
</li>
<li>
Be sure that the third-party options utilize the cloud provider’s APIs.
</li>
</ul>
