---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.4 Cloud Services
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What is the difference between a hybrid cloud and a community cloud?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference between infrastructure as a service (IaaS) and platform as a service (PaaS)?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which two implementations are available for software as a service (SaaS)?
    </li>
    <li>
     What services does cloud computing provide?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which cloud computing model allows the client to run software without purchasing servers, data center space, or network equipment?
    </li>
   </ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     A metaphor for the internet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cloud computing
    </td>
    <td>
     Software, data access, computation, and storage services provided to clients through the internet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Public cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     Platforms, applications, storage, or other resources that are made available to the general public by a cloud service provider.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Private cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     Platforms, applications, storage, or other resources that are made available to a single
        organization.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Community cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     Platforms, applications, storage, or other resources that are shared by several organizations.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hybrid cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     A combination of public, private, and community cloud resources from different service providers.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     3.0 Host and Application Defense
     <blockquote>
      3.3 Implement Virtualization
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      2.1 Explain the importance of security concepts in an enterprise environment.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Cloud access security broker (CASB)
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      2.2 Summarize cloud and virtualization concepts.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Cloud models
       <ul>
        <li>
         Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
        </li>
        <li>
         Platform as a service (PaaS)
        </li>
        <li>
         Software as a service (SaaS)
        </li>
        <li>
         Public
        </li>
        <li>
         Community
        </li>
        <li>
         Private
        </li>
        <li>
         Hybrid
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Cloud service providers
      </li>
      <li>
       Managed service provider (MSP)/Managed security service provider (MSSP)
      </li>
      <li>
       On-premises vs. off-premises
      </li>
      <li>
       Fog computing
      </li>
      <li>
       Edge computing
      </li>
      <li>
       Serverless architecture
      </li>
      <li>
       Services integration
      </li>
      <li>
       Resource policies
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 9.4.1 Cloud Services Introduction

### Cloud Services Introduction 00:00-00:38

More and more networks are shifting to a decentralized resource approach by utilizing various cloud services. Because of this, it's important that you have a solid understanding of cloud concepts and how cloud services impact a network.

Chances are you've heard about the cloud. It's used in almost every conversation about networking or the internet. But what exactly is the cloud? Well, it's actually a lot of different things—"and a lot of them have been around for a while.

Let's say we have an enterprise network here. And within this network, we have several switches, routers, some servers, workstations, and a connection to the internet.

### Traditional Network Model 00:38-01:21

Traditionally, each of these workstations would have all the necessary applications and hardware components in order to carry out daily tasks, and these servers would each have a single OS installed and provide a specific function, such as a file server or DHCP server.

However, the cloud changes how a traditional network model works. For example, let's say these workstations need to perform a lot of calculations. In a traditional networking model, each of these workstations would need the necessary software and hardware to match to carry out these tasks. That can get expensive. What the cloud does is outsource these tasks to other machines, which are either located on the same network or provided by a third party via the Internet.

### What is the Cloud? 01:21-03:00

In essence, the cloud is computing resources that are offered or delivered as a service over a network. These computing resources include performing calculations or computations, the ability to store data, or the ability to network resources together. The cloud name itself comes from the cloud-shaped symbol used to denote a complex infrastructure in system and network diagrams.

In order for a service to be considered a true cloud service, it needs to have five characteristics, which have been determined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.

First, it needs to be an on-demand self-service, meaning users must be able to dynamically obtain resources.

Second, it needs to be provided over a network, typically the Internet, and be available on multiple platforms, such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, and workstations. This is called broad network access.

Third, it needs to have resource pooling. This means multiple users can use the same resources. These resources can be physical or virtual, but they need to be able to scale dynamically according to demand. For example, if a server suddenly gets a thousand connections, it needs the ability to provision additional computing power or offload clients to different VMs or servers.

Fourth, the service needs to have rapid elasticity. This means the services can seamlessly provision resources and scale resource usage back depending on demand.

And finally, the fifth characteristic is what's known as a measured service--that is, resources can be controlled and optimized automatically. In addition, this also means that the service provider can collect information about the service.

### Cloud Deployment Models 03:00-04:16

Now, cloud services can be categorized based on the way they are deployed, and there are a few different cloud deployment models you should know about. The first is a public cloud.

A public cloud is made available to the public by a service provider. These services are sometimes free, but often use a pay-as-you-go model.

With a private cloud, the service consists of an infrastructure provisioned and operated solely for a single organization. Private clouds are typically hosted at the organization. However, there are some private cloud providers that provide remote hosting.

Sometimes several organizations share infrastructure for a specific community with common concerns. This is called a community cloud.

And the final cloud deployment model is a hybrid cloud. Hybrid clouds are becoming increasingly common. Hybrid clouds are a combination of private, community, or public clouds for different aspects of the services that are provided. For instance, a hybrid cloud service can provide special load balancing between different cloud types if there is a spike in resource usage. Hybrid clouds also use both on-site and off-site resource hosting.

Now that you have an understanding of some of the basic concepts of the cloud service model, let's take a look at the different types of cloud services that are available to organizations.

### Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) 04:16-05:44

The first cloud service we'll look at is called Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).

I want to point out that all cloud services end with —œas a service.— This is a quick way for you to identify a cloud service. They almost all use this initialism model, too.

Now, Infrastructure as a Service provides an organization with infrastructure components—"that is, computer hardware components—"as a service. And these hardware components can be anything from networking devices to storage and data processing resources.

For example, instead of having to install multiple file servers with redundant hard drives in your server room, you can pay a company for storage space on their servers. This eliminates the need to maintain and secure local file servers.

And let's say you need to process large amounts of data or compile and test applications. Instead of needing the hardware infrastructure on site, you can outsource this to an IaaS company, such as AWS.

Another nice thing about IaaS is that it can scale as needed. For example, let's say you need to add more computing resources. Without IaaS, you would have to go out and buy all that hardware, set it up, configure it, et cetera. However, if you are using IaaS, you just tell the cloud company that you need more resources, and they are immediately provided.

One thing to know about using IaaS is that it only provides the hardware resources. It's still your job to handle all the configuration and setup and interface with the cloud infrastructure.

### Platform as a Service (PaaS) 05:44-06:41

The next cloud service is Platform as a Service (PaaS).

Platform as a Service provides all the underlying resources that IaaS provides; however, it goes a step further. In addition to the hardware resources, PaaS also provides the configuration, setup, and management of the cloud platform.

For example, it handles installing operating systems, connecting virtual networks, and creating an entire environment that is ready for you to use immediately. One common example of PaaS is for software developers. A lot of companies that offer PaaS have packages that are specifically designed for developing, testing, and deploying software programs.

Some PaaS cloud service providers also provide additional features, such software design systems, software development resources, testing, and deployment resources. Like IaaS, PaaS provides scalability and flexibility; it can grow or shrink with your organization's needs.

### Software as a Service (SaaS) 06:41-08:04

Next is Software as a Service (SaaS). Software as a Service is designed for your average end user. It provides end users with the applications that they need to perform their day-to-day work.

Instead of installing the applications locally, they use a web browser to access programs. Some SaaS providers charge a monthly or annual fee. But often, with SaaS, you pay for only the applications that you need. For example, if a user needs a word processing application for nine hours a day, that is how much you pay for. If another user needs the same application for only three hours a month, you pay much less.

SaaS also allows you to try new software before committing to it. You can try it out, paying only for the time you use it. If you really like it, you can pay for more use. If you don't like it, you can look for something else without losing much money.

SaaS comes in two forms, simple multi-tenancy and fine-grained multi-tenancy. With simple multi-tenancy, each cloud service customer has their own dedicated resources segregated from other customers' resources.

Fine-grained multi-tenancy offers the same level of segregation as simple multi-tenancy, but all of the resources used by all customers are pooled together and shared. Your data is segregated, so other customers can't access it. However, your computing resources, applications, and other cloud resources are shared with other customers.

### Security as a Service (SECaaS) 08:04-09:12

The last cloud service model we'll look at is Security as a Service (SECaaS).

Now, you might be thinking, wait a second, I'm a security professional--why would I want to outsource my security services to the cloud? This isn't what SECaaS does.

In one way, SECaaS is similar to SaaS—"it provides a subscription model for applications and software. However, instead of being used for productivity on workstations, the applications and software are specific to organizational security.

For example, you might subscribe to a SECaaS system that provides a high-level anti-virus detection service that includes continuous anti-virus updates. Other services provided by SECaaS include DDoS protection, intrusion detection, and authentication services. One of the most common SECaaS providers is CloudFlare.

SECaaS can sometimes be much more cost effective for an organization than having to purchase all the necessary hardware equipment and personnel to properly protect a network from viruses, malware, and intrusion. However, it is still a necessity to have an on-site security professional.

### Summary 09:12-09:35

The cloud is an extremely useful service that more and more organizations implement. Because of this, it's important that you understand the underlying structure of the cloud and what it means to your organization's systems and infrastructure. In addition, by better understanding the cloud deployment models, you can better protect your organization.

## 9.4.2 Enhancing Cloud Performance

### Enhancing Cloud Performance 00:00-00:19

In this video, we're going to look at five different ways the cloud is being enhanced with technologies for performance: fog computing, edge computing, serverless architecture, services integration, and resource policies. Let's get started.

### Fog Computing 00:19-01:44

Fog computing, also known as fogging, is the cloud plus the Internet of Things.

Fog is a new distributed architecture that extends services offered in the cloud to edge devices. Fog nodes are made up of intelligence, computing power, and storage resources. This can be in the form of routers or smart gateways that communicate with the cloud.

These fog nodes might, for example, process signals coming in from sensors in a certain part of a city to measure CO2 emissions and then send alerts.

Edge devices are designed to accomplish specific tasks using apps. They come in all shapes and sizes, from smartwatches to autonomous cars to smart buildings. Edge devices can also be routers, switches, or firewalls. Fog computing uses decentralized local network architectures to speed up the analysis and retrieval of data near the source.

With growing 5G Wireless networking and embedded artificial intelligence, we're about to have billions of apps and devices coming online and a tsunami of data that needs to be processed. Fog can help with that.

With fog, critical core functions are distributed. Computing, communications, control, storage, and decision making are all close to where the data originates locally. Smart devices and sensors are being developed so the components can instantly interact via wireless networks.

### Benefits of Fog Computing 01:44-02:42

Fog promises to be a revolutionary new way of connecting, living, and working. Its benefits over cloud computing include lower latency, greater security, and enhanced capacity. Since fog nodes are physically closer to devices in the network, users can enjoy much lower latency with instant responses to their computing needs.

Fog provides greater security mainly because the data travels a much shorter distance in a distributed network. With fog, the storage capacity of the cloud is also enhanced. For example, a smart vehicle in trial right now is currently generating 35 gigabytes of data per hour. Secure fog computing has the power and reach to process this amount of data.

In addition, fog has the monitoring, detecting, and reporting capabilities to provide real-time incident response for security breaches, allowing it to quickly detect and isolate threats and minimize disruption of services.

### Fog Security 02:42-03:00

While fog computing has many positive aspects, it also inherits a cornucopia of security issues from cloud computing: account hijacking, denial of service, access control issues, unsecure APIs, system and application vulnerabilities, shared technology issues, and much more.

### Edge Computing 03:00-04:13

Now let's discuss Edge computing. Edge computing is performed at or near the source of the data, not in the cloud. It's a component of fog computing where the architecture is distributed with decentralized processing power. We capture, store, process, and analyze the data near the client, where the data is usually generated.

From the wearable on your wrist to streaming video optimization, from controlling intersection traffic flow to smart homes and buildings, edge computing's future is exponentially expanding with the Internet of Everything, artificial intelligence, 5G, robotics, machine learning, and all the other technological developments taking place now.

For edge devices to be smart, they must look at incoming data, process it effectively, share it, and take some sort of action. Edge computing means the edge devices take these actions without requiring data to be transported elsewhere. Using a hub and spoke model, the cloud is the hub, and everything outside the spokes is the edge, like a spiderweb. Think of it like this: edge computing is about processing the data locally, where cloud computing is focused on processing data in a remote data center that's a public or private cloud.

### Benefits of Edge Computing 04:13-04:52

There are many benefits of edge computing. And much like fog computing, these include lower latency, increased bandwidth, greater resiliency, and data sovereignty.

Data sovereignty is the ability to own and manage your own data, and companies are very concerned about making sure their data remains theirs regardless of the technology they utilize.

Edge also empowers workloads that need processing in near real time, like autonomous cars communicating with each other. This speed and efficiency allows organizations to make more impactful and timely decisions, which reduces costs, helps them better engage with customers, and increases privacy.

### Security Risks of Edge Computing 04:52-04:58

Edge computing also suffers from many of the same security risks as fog and cloud computing.

### Serverless Architecture 04:58-06:30

Another way to enhancing cloud performance is by using serverless architecture, or serverless computing. It lets you build and run your apps and services without having to actually manage the infrastructure they run on. Yes, your apps are still running on a server, but you don't have to take care of it or its components.

Instead, your cloud provider takes care of all the server provisioning management, leaving your developers to focus on what they do best: creating their core product. And this saves them precious time and energy.

Basically, a serverless architecture eliminates most of the infrastructure management tasks of server provisioning, patching, OS and database maintenance, storage, and more. The cloud service provider takes care of fault tolerance and high availability.

Ultimately, serverless architecture reduces costs and frees the company and its developers to focus on product innovation and a faster time to market. This gives them great agility and responsiveness while they enjoy automatic application scaling and market competitiveness.

The serverless model is often referred to as Backend as a Service, or BaaS, meaning that companies simply pay for the resources consumed on the back end. Companies can also rent functions and compute runtimes, known as Function as a Service, or FaaS. This allows companies to execute application logic, but none of their data is stored. Major FaaS vendors are Amazon, Google, IBM, and Microsoft.

### Benefits of Services Integration 06:30-06:54

Benefits of cloud services integration include synchronized data and apps, increased agility, faster time to market, improved operational efficiency, reduced operational costs, increased flexibility, and scalability. Whether single-cloud or multi-cloud focused, businesses are enjoying the tremendous, feature-rich benefits of cloud services integration.

### Drawbacks of Serverless 06:54-08:06

While there are many positive aspects to serverless, there are a few drawbacks.

The first is performance. Some code could suffer from latency because the cloud provider typically spins down the serverless code while it's not in use. If the code you need has to take time to start up, that will cause a delay. Also, serverless may not be appropriate for some workloads, like high-performance computing, due to resource limits.

The next drawback is security.

In serverless computing, the total attack surface is due to each component being an entry point to the serverless application. Some of these would include network sniffing, man-in-the-middle attack, phishing, SQL injection, DDoS, and code exploit. Further, because of limitations, companies can't implement an intrusion detection/prevention system, or IDS/IPS.

The next challenge is privacy. Many serverless environments use proprietary public cloud environments, and resources are often shared. To overcome this, serverless computing can be done on private clouds or even on-premeses, which allows companies full control over system privacy.

### Services Integration 08:06-08:24

Integration with the cloud has really grown in popularity as Software as a Service solutions continue to increase. More businesses are running a hybrid mix of on-premises apps and SaaS apps, and this is creating a much greater need for innovative integration methods.

### Integration Types and Methods 08:24-08:53

There are three major integration types of cloud technologies: cloud-to-cloud, cloud-to-on-prem, and a hybrid combination of the two. Data and app integration needs are the core concern when you're choosing from these strategies. Businesses can build their own integration solutions for their enterprise, or they can employ a third-party provider with a solution that's reusable, agile, and scalable. More than likely, integrating with the cloud could be far more cost-effective as well.

### Security issues with Integration 08:53-09:13

However, data and apps need to be protected from internal and external threats. Misconfigurations can open devastating security vulnerabilities. A good cloud access security broker, or CASB, can be a dedicated security solution that monitors and automates security configuration audits.

### Resource Policies 09:13-10:03

A resource policy is attached to a specific resource where you can specify who has access to it and what they can do with it. This helps to lock down applications and data on mobile devices and integrate with cloud resources. You can create policies in something like Microsoft Intune and then roll them out to all your users. This includes your users who would like to bring your own device, or BYOD.

You can keep your corporate apps and data secure and encrypted on these devices, regardless of the OS – Android, IoS, or Windows. Policies are usually applied to groups of users or groups of devices. If you're using Microsoft Intune for your resource policies, you'll need to integrate with Azure Active Directory services in the Azure cloud.

### Summary 10:03-10:29

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we looked at other technologies that enhance cloud performance like fog computing, edge computing, and serverless architecture. We also discussed services integration, and we ended by exploring resource policies. The cloud will continue to expand, and more options will become available to enhance its performance.

## 9.4.3 Cloud Computing Security Issues

### Cloud Computing Security Issues 00:00-00:18

Let's talk about cloud computing security issues. The benefits offered by cloud computing—"the ability to use applications, platforms, and infrastructure as needed, and not use them when you don't—"is attractive. However, security is a key issue.

### Cloud Security Considerations 00:18-01:40

In a traditional system, you secure data behind layer after layer of security mechanisms—"firewalls, ACLs, encryption, et cetera. And even after all that, it's still a challenge to keep your network safe. Add in the cloud component, and now all that data is being sent across the internet to a third-party organization who also needs to maintain their own system security.

Ultimately, the decision to utilize a cloud provider comes down to a partnership of trust. The cloud computing service provider has to ensure the security and privacy of your information. Security is part of the service they provide.

However, you, as a security administrator, are still responsible for protecting your company's data. One of the key things you need to remember is that industry and government regulations created to protect personal and business information still apply. Even though the data is being stored by the cloud computing provider, you're still responsible.

Whenever an organization is evaluating a move to the cloud, I always tell them that they need to approach the process of picking a cloud service provider in the same way they would buying a used car from a dealership. A used car may look great on the surface, but what you really need to be concerned with is what's under the hood. Take the same approach when selecting a cloud service provider.

Let's go over some of the key security considerations you need to keep in mind if you use a cloud service provider.

### Trust the Provider 01:40-01:59

First, there's an issue of trust. You have to trust that your cloud service provider is good at information security. If your provider hasn't done a good job securing their environment, you could be in trouble. You can insist that the cloud services provider implement specific security measures, but you can't physically make them.

### Security Monitoring 01:59-02:40

In addition, there's a monitoring issue. It's difficult to monitor security issues when your environment is provided by a cloud service provider. You're not on site, so you don't know what security issues they're facing. You don't see the midnight attack that they had to fight off last night. The cloud service provider probably doesn't want to let you know about it because they're afraid you might terminate their services.

Likewise, it's difficult to measure a cloud provider's degree of competence with information security because they probably don't want to expose their infrastructure to customers. Therefore, as we talked about with monitoring, it's hard to know how things are really going with your cloud computing environment. All you see really is the user interface.

### Authentication, Partitioning, and Updates 02:40-04:03

Another thing to consider is authentication. Make sure that the cloud service provider authenticates everyone who's going to use the service. Don't choose the cloud service provider if they allow free access.

The next key thing to look for is partitioning. In other words, they make sure that your information and your data is kept completely separate from other customers' information and data. You don't want a fellow cloud computing customer gaining access to your data.

Within your organization, make sure that your individual users only have access to the applications that they need. Do not allow them to choose whatever they want to use.

One way to do this is to use a Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB). A CASB is a software tool or a service that sits between an organization and a cloud service provider. Its job is to make sure that all communication and access to the cloud service provider complies with the organization's security policies and procedures. For example, it might make sure devices connecting to the cloud meet certain security standards, such as full-device encryption, up-to-date malware protection, et cetera.

The next key thing to look for is updating. Make sure that the cloud service provider maintains a rigorous patch management program to ensure that the systems are updated. This will help protect your information from potential exploits.

### Processes, Policies, and Procedures 04:03-04:46

After that, check out their processes. A good cloud computing service provider should have processes, policies, and procedures in place to handle various events. These processes, policies, and procedures should include everything, from something as simple as requesting access to a new application or something as critical as dealing with a major security breach. When you're evaluating a company, ask the company for a copy of these policies and procedures so you can see what they are going to do if a certain event happens.

In addition, verify that the cloud service provider has policies and procedures in place for monitoring security logs, monitoring unusual behavior, and performing the various tasks required to keep their system safe.

### Encryption and Probing 04:46-05:19

Next, make sure that they use some form of encryption to ensure that the data passing between your organization and their service is encrypted and can't be sniffed. Most likely, the data will pass through the untrusted network connection that is the internet. Secure data transmission is critical.

Last, the cloud computing service provider should probe their system on a regular basis. They should contract with a third party whose expertise is breaking into systems. The third party should probe the cloud computing service to see if there are any weaknesses that can be exploited.

### Summary 05:19-05:44

Cloud services are here to stay. No matter the organization you work for, they are probably going to use some type of cloud service. This is because cloud services are very cost-effective and convenient. However, with convenience comes risk. And it's your job as a security professional to identify those risk, account for them, and minimize them as much as possible.

## 9.4.4 Cloud Computing Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Cloud computing
   </li>
   <li>
    Types of clouds
   </li>
   <li>
    Cloud computing models
   </li>
   <li>
    Cloud security risk reduction
   </li>
   <li>
    Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI)
   </li>
  </ul>

### Cloud Computing

Cloud computing is software, data access, computation, and storage services provided to clients through the internet. The term cloud is a metaphor for the internet. It is based on the basic cloud drawing used to represent the telephone network. It is now used to describe the internet infrastructure in computer network diagrams. Characteristics of cloud computing include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Delivery of common business applications that are accessed from a web service or software
      (like a web browser).
   </li>
   <li>
    The cloud connection can exist over the internet or a LAN.
   </li>
   <li>
    Cloud computing does not require end-user knowledge of the physical location and configuration of the system that
      delivers the services.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Types of clouds

Cloud computing can be implemented in several different ways, including the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Public cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      public cloud
     </i>
     can be accessed by anyone. Cloud-based computing resources, such as platforms, applications, storage,
        or other resources, are made available to the general public by a cloud service provider. The service provider may or may
        not require a fee for using these resources. For example, Google provides many publicly-accessible cloud applications, such
        as Gmail and Google Docs.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Private cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      private cloud
     </i>
     provides resources to a single organization. Access is restricted to the users within the
        organization. Private clouds can be hosted internally. Because of the expense and expertise required to implement, clouds are
        typically hosted externally, by a third party. An organization commonly enters into an agreement with a cloud service
        provider, which provides secure access to cloud-based resources. The organization's data is kept separate and secure
        from any other organization using the same service provider.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Community cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      community cloud
     </i>
     is designed to be shared by several organizations. Access is restricted to users within the
        organizations who are sharing the community cloud infrastructure. Community clouds can be hosted internally or on-premise,
        with each organization sharing the cost of implementation and maintenance. Because of the expense and expertise
        required, community clouds are commonly hosted externally, by a third party.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hybrid cloud
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      hybrid cloud
     </i>
     is composed of a combination of public, private, and community cloud resources from different service
        providers. The goal behind a hybrid cloud is to expand the functionality of a given cloud service by integrating it with
        other cloud services.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

The advantages of cloud computing are:

<ul>
   <li>
    Flexible access
   </li>
   <li>
    Ease of use
   </li>
   <li>
    Self-service resource provisioning
   </li>
   <li>
    API availability
   </li>
   <li>
    Service metering
   </li>
   <li>
    The ability to try software applications in cloud computing service models
   </li>
  </ul>

### Cloud Computing Models

Cloud computing service models include the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Model
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
    </td>
    <td>
     IaaS delivers infrastructure to the client, such as processing, storage,
        networks, and virtualized environments. The client deploys and runs software without purchasing servers, data center space,
        or network equipment.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Platform as a Service (PaaS)
    </td>
    <td>
     PaaS delivers everything a developer needs to build an application. The
        deployment comes without the cost and complexity of buying and managing the underlying hardware and software layers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Software as a Service (SaaS)
    </td>
    <td>
     SaaS delivers software applications to the client over the internet or on a
        local area network. SaaS comes in two implementation types:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Simple multi-tenancy in which each customer has its own resources that are segregated from other customers.
      </li>
      <li>
       Fine grain multi-tenancy segregates customers, but resources are shared.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Security as a Service (SECaaS)
    </td>
    <td>
     SECaaS providers integrate their services into a corporate infrastructure. The
        applications and software are specific to organizational security. SECaaS is based on the Software-as-a-Service cloud
        computing model, but is limited to information security services and does not require on-premises hardware. These
        security services can include authentication, anti-virus, anti-malware, spyware, intrusion detection, penetration testing,
        and security event management.
     <p>
      SECaaS can sometimes be much more cost effective for an organization than having to pay for all the necessary 
        equipment and personnel to properly protect a network from viruses, malware, and instruction. However, it is still 
        necessary to have an on-site security professional.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Cloud Security Risk Reduction

Cloud service providers reduce the risk of security breaches through the following actions.

<ul>
   <li>
    Authenticate all users who access the service and allow users to access only the applications and data that they need.
   </li>
   <li>
    Use a Cloud Access Security Broker (CASB). A CASB is a software tool or service that sits between an organization and a cloud
      service provider. Its job is to make sure that all communication and access to the cloud service provider complies with the
      organization's security policies and procedures.
   </li>
   <li>
    Segregate each organization's centrally-stored data.
   </li>
   <li>
    Verify, test, and apply updates to the infrastructure.
   </li>
   <li>
    Establish a formal process for all facets of the service, from user requests to major data breaches and catastrophic
      events.
   </li>
   <li>
    Implement security monitoring for usage, unusual behavior, and other events.
   </li>
   <li>
    Implement encryption up to the point of use, such as the client's web browser.
   </li>
   <li>
    Probe for security holes with a third-party service provider.
   </li>
   <li>
    Comply with all regulatory measures, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI)

Cloud-based services can be hosted externally by third-party service providers or internally on your own virtualization infrastructure. For example, internal private clouds are commonly used to provide a VDI. Using VDI, user desktops are virtualized, running on high-end hardware in the data center instead of on the end user's workstation hardware. The physical workstation is merely used to establish a remote connection to the user's virtualized desktop. This is sometimes called a thin client deployment because most of the computing power is provided by servers in the data center. Traditional deployments, where most of the processing load is handled by the local workstation, are called thick client deployments.

Using VDI provides increased flexibility, enhanced security, efficient management, and better data protection than the traditional workstation-based desktop model. Consider the following advantages:

<ul>
   <li>
    Workstation hardware costs are reduced. Only minimal workstation hardware is required to run a Remote Desktop (Windows)
      or VNC (Linux) client and connect to the private cloud.
   </li>
   <li>
    User data on the desktop can be protected centrally by backing up the hypervisors where the virtualized desktops are
      running. There is no need to back up physical workstations separately.
   </li>
   <li>
    If a user's physical workstation fails, no data is lost. The user can access the virtualized desktop from a
      different workstation while the failed hardware is repaired or replaced.
   </li>
   <li>
    If a widespread malware infection hits multiple user desktops, the affected virtual systems can be quickly re-imaged on
      the hypervisor. There is no need to push large images down to end users' workstations over the network.
   </li>
   <li>
    If a user loses a device, such as a notebook or tablet, there is much less of a chance that critical data will be
      compromised because no data is saved on the device.
   </li>
  </ul>

## 9.4.5 Cloud Storage Security Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Cloud storage
- Advantages of cloud storage

### Cloud Storage

Cloud storage is a data storage model. It is usually provided by a third party as a service. Some of the most widely used cloud storage for enterprises providers are Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, and Microsoft Azure. Many companies take advantage of cloud services to decrease costs and meet ever-increasing storage needs.

Cloud storage services may be accessed through a co-located cloud computer service, a web service application programming interface (API), or by applications that utilize the API. Cloud desktop storage that uses a cloud storage gateway or web-based content management system is an example of an application that uses the API.

A cloud access security broker (CASB) may act as a gatekeeper, extending an organization's security policies into the cloud storage infrastructure. A CASB focuses on the visibility of the company data, regulation compliance, user access to prevent threats, and data security through encryption and loss prevention.

Cloud storage is:

<ul>
   <li>
    Made up of many distributed resources but still acts as one, either in a federated or a cooperative storage cloud
      architecture.
   </li>
   <li>
    Highly fault tolerant through redundancy and distribution of data.
   </li>
   <li>
    Highly durable through the creation of versioned copies.
   </li>
  </ul>

Cloud Storage is a virtual service; the infrastructure is the responsibility of the storage provider. Access controls should be set in the same way as a local file system would be set. There is no need for the provider to have access to the stored data. Measures for securing cloud storage include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Implement security controls in the same way as in a physical datacenter.
   </li>
   <li>
    Use data classification policies.
   </li>
   <li>
    Assign information into categories that determine storage, handling, and access requirements.
   </li>
   <li>
    Assign security classification based on information sensitivity and criticality.
   </li>
   <li>
    Use specialized tools to securely dispose of data when it is no longer needed.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Advantages of Cloud Storage

Advantages of Cloud Storage are:

<ul>
   <li>
    Companies pay only for the storage used. This does not necessarily mean that cloud storage is less expensive, but it
      incurs only operating expenses.
   </li>
   <li>
    Cloud storage can cut energy consumption by up to 70% making an organization more green.
   </li>
   <li>
    Organizations can choose between off-premises and on-premises cloud storage options, or a mixture of the two
      options.
   </li>
   <li>
    Storage availability and data protection is intrinsic to object storage architecture. Depending on the application, you
      can eliminate the costs, effort, and additional technology to add availability and protection.
   </li>
   <li>
    Storage maintenance tasks, such as purchasing additional storage capacity, are the responsibility of the service
      provider.
   </li>
   <li>
    Cloud storage can be used for copying virtual machine images from the cloud to on-premises locations or to import a
      virtual machine image from an on-premises location to the cloud image library.
   </li>
   <li>
    Cloud storage can be used as natural disaster backup, since cloud storage providers' backup servers are typically
      located in different places around the globe.
   </li>
  </ul>
