---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.8 BYOD Security
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How would you remediate a tablet or phone infected with malware?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is an acceptable use policy (AUP)? How does it benefit mobile security?
    </li>
    <li>
     How does virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI) provide enhanced security and better data protection?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference between choose your own device (CYOD) and corporate owned, personally enabled (COPE)?
    </li>
    <li>
     How can you prevent malicious insider attacks?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Secure mobile devices.
    </li>
    <li>
     Secure an iPad.
    </li>
    <li>
     Create a guest network for BYOD.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Bring your own device
    </td>
    <td>
     A BYOD policy allows employees to use personal devices for work related tasks.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Acceptable use policy
    </td>
    <td>
     An AUP determines the rules for using corporate resources, such as internet access, computers, etc.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual desktop infrastructure
    </td>
    <td>
     VDI is a technology that uses virtual machines and virtual desktops.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Choose your own device
    </td>
    <td>
     In a CYOD system, the company provides a list of approved devices for an employee to choose from. The ownership and management of devices varies by organization.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Corporate owned, personally enabled
    </td>
    <td>
     In a COPE system, the company provides a list of approved devices for an employee to choose from. The company owns the device; the employee uses and manages the device.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.0 Physical and Network Security
     <blockquote>
      2.2 Harden Network Devices
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.5. Given a scenario, implement secure mobile solutions.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Deployment models
       <ul>
        <li>
         Bring your own device (BYOD)
        </li>
        <li>
         Corporate-owned personally enabled (COPE)
        </li>
        <li>
         Choose your own device (CYOD)
        </li>
        <li>
         Corporate-owned
        </li>
        <li>
         Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI)
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 9.8.1 BYOD Security Issues

### Mobile Device Management 00:00-01:17

Let's spend a few minutes talking about managing mobile devices.

When managing a modern computer network, you need to take into account all of mobile devices that will be connected to that network from both a management perspective and from a security perspective. Most users today have more than one mobile device that they will use to complete their day to day work, including smart phones and tablets. These devices may be purchased by your organization, or they may be personal devices brought from home. This practice is sometimes referred to as bring your own device, or BYOD. While these devices allow employees to be more productive, they also create management issues and open up security holes in your network. Because these devices are so well liked, it really isn't feasible for you to try to prevent their usage. Instead, you need to formulate plans to address them in your overall management strategy.

A key issue to remember is the fact that these devices probably contain some type of sensitive information. The degree of sensitivity depends on your organization, the person's role, and the information downloaded to these devices. It is possible that sensitive information can leak out of your organization through one of these mobile devices. You need to define processes for managing these devices. Let's take a look at a few things you need to consider.

### Provisioning Mobile Devices 01:17-01:40

First, you should define a process for provisioning users with mobile devices. Remember, whenever you give an employee one of these devices, it can open up a security risk. You need to carefully control who gets these devices and what they put on them. Begin by defining a procedure for provisioning users with mobile devices. This ensures that you know exactly who has a mobile device and what they will use it for.

### AUP 01:40-06:27

Next, you should define acceptable uses for these devices. There are several key aspects related to acceptable use; one is personal use, and the other is after normal hours use. Employment terms play a factor. If an hourly employee is issued a mobile device, and that employee uses the device after normal work hours for company purposes, such as answering emails or responding to requests, then that individual could be eligible for overtime pay. This issue also relates to personal use of the device. If an employee uses a company owned mobile device after hours for anything that's irresponsible, illegal, embarrassing, or even malicious, your organization may have a degree of liability. The liability would stem from the fact that the organization issued the device to the employee and didn't specify acceptable personal use guidelines. Therefore, you should include provisions in your AUP that explicitly defines what constitutes acceptable personal use and which activities are prohibited.

If your organization allows personally owned devices, then you must address the question of who owns company data if it gets copied to a user's device. Does the organization still own it, or does the user own it because it's on their personal device? To deal with this problem, your AUP should define the kind of data that is allowed on mobile devices, especially if the device is personally owned. It should also define the kind of data prohibited on mobile devices. You can implement information classification labels to make it clear to the user into which category a particular piece of data is sorted.

In addition, your AUP needs to address the threat of insider attacks. A malicious internal user could use a mobile device to conduct an insider attack. For example, the user could use the built-in camera to take pictures of sensitive internal information. They could copy sensitive data to the device's storage. They could use the built-in microphone to record conversations. They could use the built-in video function to record proprietary processes, and so on. They could then transmit this stolen information outside your organization without going through your organization's network security mechanism using the device's mobile broadband connection. This would bypass your intrusion protection systems, your firewall, and any other network security mechanisms you may have implemented. Essentially, data could be stolen and you will have no idea that it's been leaked or how it got out.

Because these devices have Wi-Fi or mobile broadband networking built-in to them, it is very difficult to prevent data leakage. If the user can download or capture sensitive information to the device, there is no technological means to prevent data from being transmitted. Accordingly, your acceptable use policy should specify where and when employees can possess mobile devices and how they can use them. For example, you could prohibit mobile devices in the high-security areas of your organization. You could specify in the AUP that any personally owned devices brought on site are subject to random searches.

Once your AUP has been defined, you need to develop a management plan for managing the mobile devices in your network, both company owned and personally owned. For example, one issue you need to be concerned with is malware propagation. If a user's tablet or phone is infected with malware, the infection can easily spread to your organization's network when they connect their device to your organization's internal network.

One solution is to implement Network Access Control (NAC) so that devices can be remediated before allowing them on your network. The NAC can install the latest antimalware software updates to a device and then run a scan to ensure the device is clean before allowing it on your network.

Alternatively, you could implement a guest wireless network that's isolated from your organization's production network. In this configuration, a BYOD device connects to the guest network to gain Internet access, but is quarantined from the rest of your organization's production network. Using a guest wireless network prevents malware on a BYOD device from infecting your production systems.

You also need to consider policies and procedures for protecting data that is legitimately copied to mobile devices within the guidelines set in your AUP. Organizations spend a lot of time, effort, and money building internal security controls to protect their data. However, if a user copies that information to a mobile device, that data is at risk. For example, if the user loses the device, the data on that device may be compromised. All the firewalls, content filters, and intrusion detection systems that you setup on your internal network are completely ineffective at preventing this. If that device doesn't have the appropriate security settings, anyone who picks up that device will be able view the sensitive data.

### MDM Infrastructure 06:27-06:45

To circumvent this risk, consider using a mobile device management (MDM) infrastructure, such as the Windows Intune service. You can require all mobile devices, even personally owned devices, to be enrolled in your MDM infrastructure. You can use this infrastructure to enforce mobile device security policies.

### Authentication 06:45-07:09

For example, using an MDM, you can require enrolled devices to use some form of authentication, such as a PIN or (better yet) a password. You don't want just anyone to be able to pick up a mobile device and begin using it without having to authenticate in some way. Without a password or a PIN code, anyone who finds a lost mobile device could immediately access the information that has been saved on it.

### Lockout 07:09-07:40

Also consider implementing some type of device lockout with your MDM infrastructure. If a device is left on, but there has been no activity for a period time, the lockout feature should lock the device and require authentication to re-access it. For example, suppose I'm at the airport using my Smartphone. I set my phone down to get my luggage and I forget and leave it in the terminal. After a few minutes of inactivity, the lockout feature automatically locks the device and requires some type of authentication to get back in.

### Encryption 07:40-08:09

You can also use the MDM infrastructure to enable device encryption. Even if I require authentication and lockouts on enrolled mobile devices, there is still a risk that someone could physically open a lost or stolen device, remove its storage, and try to read its contents from a different system. To prevent this, you can enable device encryption. Without the correct encryption key, the contents of the device's storage are undecipherable. Again, this can help protect data on a device if it gets lost.

### Remote Wipe 08:09-08:52

You can also use the MDM infrastructure to remotely wipe mobile devices. This feature sends out a command over the Internet to a lost or stolen mobile device that causes the contents of the device to be wiped. The ability to perform a remote wipe is essential if you allow sensitive company information to be copied to mobile devices. If the user loses a device, you need to be able to perform a remote wipe as quickly as possible. You can even use the MDM infrastructure to automatically wipe data from a device after a certain number of failed authentication attempts have occurred. If someone finds or steals a device and then repeatedly tries to guess its pin or password, all the data will be removed from the device.

### Employee Reporting Device Lost/Stolen 08:52-09:46

Finally, you should implement some type of reporting process for your mobile devices. Identifying a lost or stolen device as quickly as possible is probably one of the most important components in your overall mobile device management strategy. If a user loses a device, or if it's stolen, the loss needs to be reported immediately. Remember, users will be either hesitant or embarrassed to let you know that the device that the organization paid for and issued to them is now gone. They may fear some type of retribution. In spite of this, you need to make sure they understand that getting the missing device wiped clean of sensitive data is the organization's primary concern. Make sure users understand that timing is critical. The longer a missing device goes unreported, the more time an attacker has to defeat its security mechanisms and the more likely the sensitive data it contains will be exposed.

### Summary 09:46-10:21

So, in this lesson we talked about some things you can do to increase the overall security of the mobile devices used by your organization. We talked about implementing a procedure for provisioning mobile devices, defining an acceptable use statement, and using an MDM infrastructure. Then we looked at some general provisions you can use to protect the data on the device, such as using authentication, implementing a lockout, using remote wipe after failed authentication attempts, encrypting the device, and instructing users to report immediately if a device is lost or stolen.

## 9.8.2 BYOD Security Facts

In addition to mobile devices owned by your organization, you must also take into account personally owned mobile devices that employees bring to work and use to complete daily work-related tasks. This practice is sometimes referred to as Bring Your Own Device (BYOD). Even though it entails a host of security risks, this is very common practice in the modern work environment.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- BYOD security issues
- Deployment model alternatives

### BYOD Security Issues

Security administrators need to keep the following BYOD security issues in mind:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        BYOD Issue
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Possible Remedies</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Malware propagation</td>
        <td>
        If a user's tablet or phone is infected with malware, the infection
        can be spread when he or she connects their device to the
        organization's network.
        </td>
        <td>
        Consider implementing a network access control (NAC) solution that
        remediates devices before allowing them to connect to your network.
        <p>
            Alternatively, consider implementing a guest wireless network that
            is isolated from your organization's production network.
            User-owned devices can connect to this network to gain internet
            access but are quarantined from the rest of your organization's
            production network.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Loss of sensitive data control</td>
        <td>
        If a user copies sensitive data to their device, the organization
        could potentially lose control of that information. Even the
        question of who owns the data after it has been copied to the
        personal device becomes problematic. Consider the following
        scenarios:
        <ul>
            <li>
            The user may not have implemented appropriate security settings
            on their device, allowing anyone who gains access to the device
            to view the sensitive data.
            </li>
            <li>
            The user may lose the device, allowing anyone who finds it to
            access the sensitive data.
            </li>
            <li>
            The device may become infected with malware, potentially
            exposing the sensitive data.
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
        <td>
        Implement an acceptable use policy that defines which kinds of data
        are allowed on personally owned devices and which kinds of data are
        prohibited. Information classification labels can be useful when
        implementing this policy. Consider requiring personal devices to be
        enrolled with a mobile device management infrastructure, such as
        Windows Intune, to enforce mobile device security policies.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Malicious insider attacks</td>
        <td>
        If a user is so inclined, they could use their mobile device to
        conduct a malicious insider attack. For example, they could:
        <ul>
            <li>
            Use the built-in camera, which nearly all modern mobile devices
            have, to take pictures of sensitive internal information.
            </li>
            <li>Use the built-in microphone to record conversations.</li>
            <li>
            Use the built-in video function to record proprietary processes
            and procedures.
            </li>
            <li>
            Use the device's mobile broadband connection to transfer stolen
            data to parties outside the organization, bypassing the
            organization's network security mechanisms.
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
        <td>
        Implement an acceptable use policy that:
        <ul>
            <li>
            Specifies where and when mobile devices can be possessed within
            the organization. For example, the possession of mobile devices
            may be prohibited in high-security areas.
            </li>
            <li>
            Notifies users that personally owned devices are subject to
            random searches if brought on site.
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Device management</td>
        <td>
        If a user brings a personally owned device on site, the organization
        needs to address clearly who is responsible for managing the device.
        Responsibility for the following needs to be defined:
        <ul>
            <li>Operating system updates</li>
            <li>App updates</li>
            <li>Anti-malware installation</li>
            <li>Anti-malware definition updates</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
        <td>
        Relying on the end user to implement these updates is unwise.
        Instead, consider implementing a network access control (NAC)
        solution that remediates devices before allowing them to connect to
        your network.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Support</td>
        <td>
        If a user brings a personally owned device on site, the organization
        needs to address clearly who will provide support for the device and
        for the apps used on the device. Will the organization's help desk
        provide support, or must the user depend upon support provided by
        the device manufacturer?
        </td>
        <td>
        Implement an acceptable use policy that specifies:
        <ul>
            <li>
            Where users can get support for personally owned mobile devices.
            </li>
            <li>Which apps are allowed for use with organizational data.</li>
            <li>Where users can get support for these apps.</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Deployment Model Alternatives

To better secure mobile devices used by company employees, consider the following deployment model alternatives to BYOD:

<ul>
   <li>
    Corporate-owned device: A corporate-owned device strategy lets businesses more effectively monitor and control activities
      performed on mobile devices. One advantage of this model is that businesses can purchase devices at significant discounts.
      The corporate-owned model also includes the option of restricting mobile device use to the workplace only. However, employees
      who need access to corporate email and other data after hours may feel compelled to use their personal devices for such
      access.
   </li>
   <li>
    Corporate-owned, personally enabled (COPE): The COPE model gives businesses significant control over device security
      while allowing employees to use the devices to access both corporate and personal data. Because the company owns the device,
      it can be secured more easily and wiped clean if lost or stolen. One disadvantage of this model is that employees who are not
      free to choose their own devices may end up bringing their own anyway.
   </li>
   <li>
    Choose your own device (CYOD): The CYOD model provides slightly more flexibility in giving users a limited selection of
      devices to choose from. But since the devices are still corporate-owned devices, IT managers can implement more effective
      security measures to prevent breaches.
   </li>
   <li>
    Virtual desktop infrastructure (VDI): VDI can be used with any of the above models, including BYOD, to allow mobile
      devices to establish a remote connection to a virtualized desktop. Using VDI provides enhanced security and better data
      protection because most of the data processing is provided by servers in the data center rather than on the local
      device.
   </li>
  </ul>

## 9.8.3 Securing Mobile Devices

### Secure Mobile Devices 00:00-00:12

In this demonstration, we'll secure a mobile device. We've already logged into the device and we're in Settings.

### Access Apps 00:12-00:57

On this iPad, there's the option to use a fingerprint scanner to log into the device. We'll look at those settings, the lock screen, and Touch ID settings.

Let's scroll down here to the Touch ID and password. First, it will want my passcode. We'll quickly put in the passcode.

You can see the Touch ID settings and the type of things we can use the Touch ID for.

If you don't use iTunes or Apple Pay very often, then you probably don't want Touch ID enabled for these. If you don't use these very often, you might want to turn them off.

You can use a fingerprint to open these applications.

As you can see, we have several fingerprints saved. This allows you to use the fingers on both hands to authenticate.

### Require Passcode 00:57-01:42

You also have options here to Turn Off Passcode and Change Passcode. We'll leave the passcode how it is because we have a secure passcode. We have the option to require a passcode, and we selected Immediately.

We'll leave it at Immediately because that's the most secure setting.

If you leave your device set to Immediately and it stays unlocked for a while, you might set it down somewhere, or somebody steals your device, and it could be unlocked at the time. They can get into your device and possibly steal data and information.

That's not what we want to happen. So, we're going to leave that at Immediately for better security.

You can also see that this device allows us to access certain information while it's locked. In this case, we'll leave these settings how they are.

### Erase Data Feature 01:42-02:23

Another feature about the passcodes and failed logins on the device is the Erase Data feature.

This is powerful and can be problematic for a system administrator. If a user typed in the wrong password too many times, it will wipe the device and erase all the data off the device so it's unusable.

That can be good if the device falls into the wrong hands. However, if a user is not paying attention or say, maybe a child gets a hold of the device, then the device may be wiped when there wasn't a real threat.

if this feature is activated in your company or your organization, let users know and help them be aware of this setting's potential impact.

### Use Location Settings 02:23-03:26

Let's look at a few other settings. We'll start with the privacy settings. Tap on Privacy. The reason we want to look at these is that the privacy settings have a location setting which allows apps to use the GPS, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, Hotspot, and other things, to determine your location.

The GPS, or Location Services, is already doing this right now, as you can see. It's turned on. You can see that we are using or sharing the location. Let's tap Location Services. You can see some of these apps we've set to Never; some are set to While Using.

Location services can be helpful in certain applications. However, some of them might not be as useful. You might decide you don't want this application to share or know where you are.

To change the settings, you go in and toggle to the setting you want. If we come in here, you see we have it set to Never but we can choose While Using the App if we want.

The important thing is to be aware that your device is constantly sharing your location and how to change that.

### Use Bluetooth Settings 03:26-04:16

Now we'll look at Bluetooth settings. We have the Bluetooth right here. You can see it's on.

This shows any devices that we connect to with frequency. The Bluetooth settings are important.

If you have Bluetooth toggled on, it means it's always on. It's always looking; it's always searching. Another way to get to this setting is to drag down. You can see the Bluetooth icon right here.

You can turn it off manually from here by clicking that button. The reason this is important is that Bluetooth has been used in past years to steal people's data.

There are several attacks that malicious users have used when in proximity to people, especially important people, or celebrities.

Attackers have used Bluetooth to get into devices and steal pictures and other information from those users. If you're not using Bluetooth, it's best to have it toggled to the off position.

### Use Wi-Fi Settings 04:16-05:38

Now, we want to mention Wi-Fi settings. Let's tap on Wi-Fi. Wi-Fi settings might not seem like a big deal, but we have one specific setting toggled off.

We all use Wi-Fi on our devices; we all jump on the internet.

But, a lot of the time, we jump on networks that we maybe should not. So, this button, Ask to Join Networks, toggles the device to ask us if we want to join networks.

When you toggle that, it will turn on and you'll get prompted whenever you need Wi-Fi and you're not connected to it. So, in that case, that might sound like a good thing.

However, it's not, because sometimes users jump on networks that are unsecured or networks that aren't real networks at all. That has been a huge issue with data theft and other things from users.

If you jump on a network that you know, it might not be an actual network that's meant for surfing the internet. It may be something somebody's using maliciously to get into your system.

By jumping onto that network, you're giving access. So, you don't want to be asked to join any networks. You should join only networks that you trust and that you know are legitimate networks.

We also have Auto-Join Hotspot. We have this set to Ask to Join. Once again, we don't want to automatically join hotspots just like we need to be careful of joining networks.

### Set iCloud Settings 05:38-05:58

Now we'll go to our iCloud settings. You can see iCloud is here.

You can see a few different things. You can see the information for the account, such as the email associated with it.

You can also see the password and security settings. This is what we want to look at now. We'll tap Password & Security.

### Use Two-Factor Authentication 05:58-06:43

The reason we want to show you this is because this version of IOS has an option to Turn On Two-Factor Authentication.

You can change your password here and put in security questions for the account. Two-factor authentication adds an extra layer of security.

It'll prompt you from another device when logging into this account and ask you if it's okay that it logs in.

That way, if somebody tries to use your Apple account to log into something, it'll always prompt you before it allows them to log in. That's a good thing to have enabled on your mobile device.

That way, if the device falls into somebody else's hands, or somebody tries to log into your account, you can see and verify whether that's a legitimate user or if you need to change your password or it's something you need to turn off.

### Summary 06:43-07:23

That's it for this demo. In this demonstration, we went over how to secure a mobile device. We looked at how to configure the lock screen and Touch ID settings. We looked at how to have your screen lock immediately.

We talked about how iCloud and multi-factor authentication can help secure your device. We talked about Wi-Fi settings and making sure you use only Wi-Fi's that you're familiar with.

We also talked about Bluetooth settings, and keeping them toggled to off if not in use. We talked about location settings under the privacy settings of device.

## 9.8.5 Creating a Guest Network for BYOD

### Create a Guest Network for BYOD 00:04-00:53

In this demonstration, we're going to look at creating a bring your own device (BYOD) guest wireless network for employees. This can be a very useful if you're an enterprise wireless network administrator.

When employees work for an organization, they expect to be able to have internet access for their personal wireless devices so they can check social media, email, and so on.

We don't want them to use our standard wireless network because that would be insecure. Instead, we can create an isolated wireless network that has access to the internet but not our internal network.

We're going to use this particular vendor's wireless networking equipment. The way you do it with each vendor's wireless equipment will be different, but the same general principals apply.

Also keep in mind that your organization should have a policy in place on how they want to create their wireless networks.

### Define a Guest Network for BYOD 00:53-03:44

Before we go too far, we could start configuring some of the things on a different device. For example, we could use our network security device to create a VLAN and handle DHCP for us. It all depends on how your organization wants to configure things and have them managed.

Let's continue.

For this vendor's equipment, what we need to do is define a guest access service for our BYOD. Then, we need to create a guest wireless LAN.

The first thing we need to do is click Networks.

We want to choose Create New Network.

On this page we decide on a name. I'll call it BYOD, which stands for bring your own device.

Now we're going to choose Guest for our network type. When we pick Guest, that network will be preconfigured with certain rules and policies to help protect our other networks.

Next, we're going to specify that this network will be VLAN 50. This tags the traffic so that our other network equipment knows how to handle it.

Now we need to specify the IP for the BYOD network. I'm going to give it an IP of 192.168.50.1 with a /24 subnet. This can be anything you want, but I like to name things to correlate with the VLAN. So, in this case I made the third octet 50 to match the VLAN. You don't have to, it's just something I do to help me remember that when I see addresses with 50 dot something, it's VLAN 50. This is a Class C private IP range and it'll give us 254 IP addresses that we can use. When I hit Enter, it populated some other settings automatically for me. I have the gateway, the broadcast IP, total IP count, the range, and my subnet mask.

I'll scroll down a bit and then come over here and click on Update DHCP Range. This populates a suggested range of addresses that I can use for my DHCP and hand out to the guest. It put in 50.6 to 50.254, which is fine with me. By the way, I do like to leave a few addresses at the beginning of my networks for potential static assignments. So this worked out well.

I'll scroll down a bit more and now let's look at our DHCP lease time. By default, it's set to 86,400 seconds. For those of you who don't like math, that's 24 hours. Now, I might want to shorten that. If this is an office setting, perhaps 10 hours is plenty. Just do the math and change the number of seconds to satisfy your lease time preference.

My DHCP Gateway is set to automatic. If my Gateway were something different, I could change it, but I'm using the default here.

I also have some various Advanced DHCP Options but there's nothing here that we need to configure. Just be aware that you do have some additional options if your organization happens to need them.

I'll click on Save here and go to the next step.

### Create a Guest Wireless for BYOD 03:44-05:13

Now that we have our network, we now need to create a wireless network. To do that, I go to Wireless Networks.

I have a regular wireless network called CorpNet but I don't want this being used for personal devices. So I'll create a new one for that. I click on Create Wireless Network.

The first thing is to give it a Name or SSID. For that I just name it BYOD to stay consistent. I'll leave it Enabled.

By default it's set to be an Open network This is probably not a good idea since the traffic won't be encrypted and others on that network could easily have their traffic captured. I'll change this to WPA Personal and put in a security key here that my BYOD guest will use.

I'll check Guest Policy. This will enable extra security options such as dropping broadcast traffic from users' wireless connections. It's recommended that you check this.

Down here I said that we were using VLAN 50. This is where we put that in.

I'm not going to change any of the other settings. We have Rate and Beacon Controls, MAC Filtering, and we can configure RADIUS MAC Authentication. Once again, we won't configure any of this.

I'll click on Save.

So here you can see I have my BYOD wireless network in addition to my other wireless network.

### Guest Control 05:13-06:35

Now let's look at Guest Control. I'll click on it and here I can see our settings.

First thing is to check the box to Enable Guest Portal.

Here I can decide what sort of authentication I might want to use. It's set to No authentication. I'll leave it set to the default.

I can choose how long someone has access before it times out. 8 hours is set by default but I can change that if I want to.

We can use the default landing page our BYOD guest will go to or have it redirected for them.

We have other settings such as creating a welcome message or displaying Terms of Service for those using our network.

We can customize the portal. This is what the BYOD guest sees when they connect. I can preview what the mobile users see as well, such as what they see on a notebook or desktop system. I can create a custom background image or custom logo and upload them instead of the default ones provided. I have all sorts of things I can change, like text, color, and so on.

For Access Control, I can decide what users have access to as soon as they connect as well as after they connect. I currently have three default networks that they're not able to access from the Guest network. I can add other networks if needed, or actually allow them access. I won't make any changes to this.

I'll click on Apply Changes.

### User Groups 06:35-07:17

The last thing I want to look at is User Groups. I'll start by clicking on Create New User Group. For name I'll put in BYOD.

Now what we're doing here is limiting our users to the amount of bandwidth they're allowed to use. I'm sure you've been to public places and done a speed test only to find that the speed is horrible. Well, this is where the person responsible does this to you. Being greedy with my bandwidth, I'm only going to give my BYOD guests 5 Mbps for download. For upload I'm only going to give them 2 Mbps.

I'll click save and you can see the results. By the way, the default is unlimited bandwidth. That's whatever the max is.

### Summary 07:17-07:30

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we created a guest wireless network where users who bring their own devices can connect to the internet.
