---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.6 Mobile Devices
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Which process allows you to define specific apps that users can have on mobile devices?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which two configurations can be used to deploy Windows Intune?
    </li>
    <li>
     What does a mobile device management (MDM) solution allow you to do?
    </li>
    <li>
     How do jailbreaking and sideloading differ?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Enforce security policies on mobile devices.
    </li>
    <li>
     Sideload an application.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     App whitelisting
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of identifying apps that users are allowed to have on mobile devices.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Geotagging
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of embedding GPS coordinates within mobile device files, such as image or video files
        created with the device's camera.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data exfiltration
    </td>
    <td>
     The unauthorized copy, transfer, or retrieval of data from a computer, server, or network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Sandboxing
    </td>
    <td>
     The isolation of an app so that it can't affect other areas of a computer or network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Jailbreaking
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of removing inherent protections placed by the device manufacturer.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Sideloading
    </td>
    <td>
     Installing an app on a mobile device via a method other than the manufacturer's app
        repository.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.0 Physical and Network Security
     <blockquote>
      2.2 Harden Network Devices
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.5 Given a scenario implement secure mobile solutions.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Connection methods and receivers
       <ul>
        <li>
         Cellular
        </li>
        <li>
         Wi-Fi
        </li>
        <li>
         Bluetooth
        </li>
        <li>
         NFC
        </li>
        <li>
         Infrared
        </li>
        <li>
         USB
        </li>
        <li>
         Point to point
        </li>
        <li>
         Point to multipoint
        </li>
        <li>
         Global Positioning System (GPS)
        </li>
        <li>
         RFID
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Mobile devices
       <ul>
        <li>
         MicroSD HSM
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Enforcement and monitoring of
       <ul>
        <li>
         Third-party app stores
        </li>
        <li>
         Rooting/jailbreaking
        </li>
        <li>
         Sideloading
        </li>
        <li>
         Custom firmware
        </li>
        <li>
         Carrier unlocking
        </li>
        <li>
         Firmware over-the-air (OTA) updates
        </li>
        <li>
         Camera use
        </li>
        <li>
         SMS/multimedia message service (MMS)/Rich communication services (RCS)
        </li>
        <li>
         External media
        </li>
        <li>
         USB on the go (OTG)
        </li>
        <li>
         Recording microphone
        </li>
        <li>
         GPS tagging
        </li>
        <li>
         Wi-Fi direct/ad hoc
        </li>
        <li>
         Tethering
        </li>
        <li>
         Hotspot
        </li>
        <li>
         Payment methods
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 9.6.1 Mobile Device Connection Methods

### Mobile Device Considerations 00:00-00:30

Mobile devices pose a unique threat to modern networks. The days when you only had to worry about static workstations that sit in a cubicle are gone. Instead, security professionals also have to worry about countless mobile devices that can be brought in and out of office and are subject to a host of security vulnerabilities.

In this lesson, we're going to take a look at some considerations you need to keep in mind when it comes to mobile devices and the threats they pose to a network.

### Connection Methods 00:30-01:41

Let's first take a look at the various connection methods used by mobile devices. Mobile devices use a variety of ways to connect to the internet, the network, and even other devices.

You're probably familiar with cellular and Wi-Fi connections. This is something practically all mobile devices are equipped with. However, mobile devices can also use Bluetooth, NFC, ANT, and infrared to communicate wirelessly. And each of these connection methods have their own set of security concerns you should be aware of.

For example, Bluetooth is susceptible to Bluejacking and Bluesnarfing, and NFC is susceptible to relay attacks, data corruption, and eavesdropping. So, when implementing mobile devices, be sure to account for the various vulnerabilities each of these connection methods have.

One way to protect against these is to simply disable these connection methods when they aren't being used. This is probably the best way to protect against attacks that leverage vulnerabilities in these systems.

Another way to secure mobile device communications is to employ proper security settings and ensure the use of security protocols. For example, make sure to only allow connections with trusted devices.

### Location, Location, Location 01:41-03:14

Another thing to consider with mobile devices is that of geolocation settings.

Most mobile devices are equipped with GPS, allowing them to use geolocation services. This helps with certain apps, such as maps and weather applications. However, you can also use the GPS unit in mobile devices for security purposes.

For example, using a technique called geofencing, you can lock mobile devices to a particular geographical area. You specify a geographic area where the mobile device is allowed to function—"a virtual boundary of sorts. If the mobile device moves outside of that area, it can either instruct the user to move back into that area, or even lock the user out from accessing the device altogether.

This functionality can be useful if you issue mobile devices to employees, but don't want them to be able to take them home to use.

Geofencing can also be used to trigger alerts or notifications. For example, it can be used to remind a user to carry out a particular task when they reach a geographic location.

Geolocation services can be of great value to mobile devices, but they also create some security concerns. One of these concerns is that of geolocation data embedded in images.

See, when someone takes a photo on their phone or mobile device, the geographic location where that photo was taken is embedded in the image's EXIF data. If the user was to upload this photo to the internet, a malicious individual could use the EXIF data to carry out a social engineering attack.

To combat this, be sure to disable geotagging on mobile devices.

### Compromised Devices 03:14-04:34

Another concern with mobile devices is the fact that they are mobile. Because users are able to take them home, to the coffee shop, to wherever, they have the added risk of being lost or stolen. And if that device contains sensitive information or company documents, you risk compromising that information.

To protect against this threat, you can do a couple of things. First, you can employ full device encryption on all mobile devices and require them to have some type of screen lock and authentication method, whether it's a pin, password, biometric, whatever. Just make sure the device requires authentication for access.

Another thing you can do is require all mobile devices to have some type of remote wipe feature. Most mobile devices have built-in remote wipe features, but you might also have to install a third-party remote wipe feature if necessary.

And lastly, mobile devices pose a risk for organizations in the form of data exfiltration.

For example, a disgruntled employee could use their phone to take photos of sensitive information or transfer documents to their phone via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or USB. They could even use the device to record sensitive conversations.

If this is a concern for your organization, consider having an extremely strict mobile device policy or only allow the use of company-owned mobile devices on the premises.

### Summary 04:34-04:55

Mobile devices pose a unique threat to an organization. And mobile device use is only going to increase in the future. Because of this, it's important that you understand the threats that mobile devices pose to an organization and the steps you can take to properly protect your network.

## 9.6.2 Mobile Device Connection Facts

Whether it's a tablet, smartphone, or an e-reader, all mobile devices share some common characteristics.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Connection Types
   </li>
   <li>
    Security Considerations
   </li>
   <li>
    Application Management
   </li>
   <li>
    Apps Security Issues
   </li>
  </ul>

### Connection Types

Mobile devices can use various methods to connect to the internet, network and other devices. Connection methods include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Cellular
   </li>
   <li>
    WiFi
   </li>
   <li>
    Bluetooth
   </li>
   <li>
    NFC
   </li>
   <li>
    ANT
   </li>
   <li>
    Infrared
   </li>
   <li>
    USB
   </li>
   <li>
    SATCOM (satellite)
   </li>
  </ul>

### Security Considerations

Mobile device security considerations include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Device content management.
   </li>
   <li>
    Remote wipe.
   </li>
   <li>
    The ability to restrict the device to a particular geographical area (geofencing).
   </li>
   <li>
    The ability to manage location information, known as geolocation.
   </li>
   <li>
    The requirement to lock the screen with passwords.
   </li>
   <li>
    The management of push notification services that can send messages and information to the device when the screen is
      locked and the application is not active.
   </li>
   <li>
    The ability to store and manage passwords for networks, websites, etc.
   </li>
   <li>
    Biometrics.
   </li>
   <li>
    Full device encryption.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Application Management

Security considerations regarding the management of applications on the mobile devices include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Rooting/jailbreaking/sideloading to load apps from third-party app stores or other websites.
   </li>
   <li>
    Flashing with custom firmware.
   </li>
   <li>
    Carrier unlocking. This is the ability to use different mobile carrier networks.
   </li>
   <li>
    The ability to receive over-the-air (OTA) firmware updates and app updates.
   </li>
   <li>
    Camera usage and geolocation information in pictures.
   </li>
   <li>
    Text and multimedia message protocols (SMS/MMS).
   </li>
   <li>
    Connection to external media.
   </li>
   <li>
    Connection using USB OTG (on-the-go).
   </li>
   <li>
    The use of a microphone for recording purposes.
   </li>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Tethering
    </i>
    which is the ability to share internet connectivity to other devices.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Apps Security Issues

When working with mobile device apps, be aware of the following security issues:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Security Issue
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Implementation</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>App control</td>
        <td>
        Application control is implemented in a similar manner for most
        mobile device operating systems.
        <ul>
            <li>
            For iOS devices, all apps come from Apple's App Store, which
            uses the following mechanisms to secure apps:
            <ul>
                <li>
                Running apps are sandboxed. This means they cannot access
                data stored by other running apps, nor can they access
                system files and resources.
                </li>
                <li>
                All iOS apps must be digitally signed by either Apple or by
                a third party developer using an Apple-issued certificate.
                This ensures that apps from the App Store haven't been
                tampered with.
                </li>
                <li>
                App developers can use encryption APIs to protect app data.
                Data can be symmetrically encrypted using AES, RC4, or 3DES.
                </li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
            For Windows RT devices, all apps come from Microsoft's Windows
            Store. The following mechanisms secure apps:
            <ul>
                <li>
                Windows RT refuses to load modules not digitally signed by
                Microsoft. This ensures that apps from the Windows Store
                haven't been tampered with.
                </li>
                <li>
                All apps available through the Windows Store use the Windows
                RT API, which contains significant security enhancements,
                including:
                <ul>
                    <li>Windows anti-buffer-overflow memory restrictions</li>
                    <li>Data Execution Prevention (DEP)</li>
                    <li>Address Space Layout Randomization (ASLR)</li>
                    <li>SafeSEH, sacrificial canary values</li>
                </ul>
                </li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
        <p>
            Be aware, however, that iOS devices can be jailbroken.
            <i class="fs-italicize"> Jailbreaking </i>
            allows apps to be installed from sources other than the App Store.
            Likewise, apps that aren't from the Windows Store can be installed
            on Windows RT devices using a process called
            <i class="fs-italicize"> sideloading </i>
            . Either of these actions can seriously compromise the security of
            the device and should be avoided.
        </p>
        <p>
            Apps for the Android operating system are not as tightly
            controlled as those for iOS and Windows RT. Some Android app
            stores implement good security and tightly control apps much like
            the App Store and the Windows Store, but others do not. It is
            strongly recommended that you use apps that come only from a
            reputable source, such as the following:
        </p>
        <ul>
            <li>Google Play Store</li>
            <li>Amazon Appstore for Android</li>
            <li>Samsung Apps</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Authentication and credential management</td>
        <td>
        The average end user must remember passwords for various network
        resources and services, including web-based services. To make life
        easier, the credential management function implemented in most
        mobile operating systems can store usernames and passwords for the
        end user. A good example is Credential Manager in Windows RT.
        <p>
            The iOS operating system performs a similar function using an
            encrypted keychain for storing digital identities, usernames, and
            passwords. When the user accesses a password-protected network
            resource or website, the credential management software supplies
            the necessary username and password, effectively allowing the user
            to automatically log in.
        </p>
        <p>
            While using credential management software is convenient for the
            end user, it can also represent a security risk. For example,
            suppose a user has stored credentials to a sensitive network
            resource or website on a mobile device and then loses that device.
            If the user failed to secure the device with a password or PIN, a
            malicious individual could exploit the stored credentials to gain
            unauthorized access.
        </p>
        <p>
            It is recommended that you train users to not store credentials to
            sensitive network resources on their mobile devices.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>App whitelisting</td>
        <td>
        App whitelisting is the process of defining specific apps that users
        can have on their mobile devices. For example, Windows RT provides a
        feature named Assigned Access, which allows you to define a
        whitelist of Windows Store applications. Assigned Access ensures
        that the device has installed only the apps required for its
        intended purpose. Apps that aren't on the whitelist are not allowed.
        <p>
            For iOS and Android devices, app whitelists can be defined and
            enforced using a mobile device management (MDM) solution.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Geo-tagging</td>
        <td>
        Geo-tagging embeds GPS coordinates within mobile device files, such
        as image or video files created with the device's camera. While this
        feature can be useful in some circumstances, it can also create
        security concerns.
        <p>
            For example, if a user regularly posts geotagged images to a
            social media site, cyber criminals could analyze the images and
            quickly discover where the user works, even the cubicle location.
            The attacker could possibly derive the user's work hours and
            personal habits, such as restaurants the user visits for lunch.
            All of this information could be compiled and used for social
            engineering attacks on the organization.
        </p>
        <p>
            As a consequence, it is recommended that this functionality be
            disabled in mobile devices you manage.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## 9.6.3 Enforcing Mobile Device Security

### Mobile Application Security 00:00-00:24

Let's look at mobile device application security.

You need to be aware of several key security issues related to mobile device apps. These issues include making sure that the apps haven't been tampered with, that they don't contain malware, and that they're not sending information to other parties without approval.

The first issue we're going to look at is application control.

### iOS Devices 00:24-01:07

Let's start by looking at iOS devices.

All apps on iOS devices come from Apple's app store. The Apple app store uses several different mechanisms to secure those apps. One mechanism is sandboxing. A sandboxed app cannot access data stored by other apps running on the device. They cannot access system files or system resources.

In addition, all iOS apps are digitally signed by Apple or a third-party developer. The digital signature uses an Apple-issued certificate and ensures that the apps from the app store haven't been tampered with. App developers can use encryption APIs to protect their app's data. Developers can use symmetric encryption, generated using AES, RC4, or Triple DES.

### Windows RT Devices 01:07-01:42

For Windows mobile devices, all apps come from the Windows store. Like iOS apps, Windows Store apps are digitally signed by Microsoft before they can be loaded on Windows mobile devices. Again, this ensures that the apps from the Windows store haven't been tampered with.

All apps available through the Windows store use the Windows RTAPI, which contains significant security enhancements, such as anti-buffer overflow memory restrictions, data execution prevention (DEP), address space layout randomization, Safe Structured Exception Handling (SafeSEH), and sacrificial canary values.

### Android Devices 01:42-02:11

The Android operating system is based on the Linux kernel and is released through open source licenses.

Some Android stores implement good security and tightly control their apps, much like the App store and the Windows store do. However, other Android app stores do not. If your users have devices with the Android operating system, it is strongly recommended that you require them to use apps that come from a reputable source, such as Google Play Store, Amazon App Store for Android, and Samsung Apps.

### Jailbreaking and Sideloading 02:11-02:59

Now, even though Apple, Microsoft, and Android control which apps are installed on their devices, it is possible to circumvent these protections by either jailbreaking the device or sideloading an app.

Jailbreaking a device is the process of removing inherent protections placed by the device manufacturer. In the case of an Apple or Android phone, the operating system can be jailbroken in order to allow the installation of non-Apple store apps or to gain elevated root privileges.

In addition, Windows and Android phones are susceptible to app sideloading. With Windows devices, this is when non-Windows store apps are installed on the Windows device. These apps have not been signed by Microsoft and could contain malware. With Android devices, you sideload by installing an application via an APK that was downloaded from the internet.

Authentication and Credential Management 02:59-04:27
Authentication and credential management are also key issues with mobile devices.

The average user has to remember usernames and passwords for a variety of network resources and services, including web-based resources. To make life easier, many mobile device operating systems implement some type of credential management system that automatically stores user names and passwords for the user.

When a user accesses a password-protected network resource or website the first time, credential management stores the credentials for that resource. When the user accesses that same resource again, the credential management software automatically supplies the necessary user name and password. This allows the user to automatically log in to that resource. Windows RT has a credential manager. iOS also has a similar function that uses an encrypted key chain for storing digital identities, usernames, and passwords. Android devices can use the Google ecosystem or a third-party app.

Using credential management software is really convenient for the user. From a security standpoint, it presents risks. For example, suppose a user has stored credentials to a sensitive network resource or website on their mobile device, and they lose that device. Any individual who finds the device could exploit that information to gain unauthorized access, especially if the user failed to secure the device with a password or pin number.

Therefore, as a best practice, train your users not to store credentials to sensitive network resources on their mobile devices.

### App Whitelisting 04:27-05:18

App whitelisting is another mobile device application security consideration. App whitelisting defines specific apps a user can install on a mobile device.

Windows RT provides a feature called Assigned Access. Assigned Access allows you to define a list of allowed Windows Store applications. The mobile device can only have the specified apps installed. For example, the mobile device could be a point of sales system or an educational device. For those purposes, you don't want Angry Birds installed on the device. Any app that's not found on the whitelist is not allowed on the device.

On iOS and Android devices, you can use a Mobile Device Management, MDM, solution to define and enforce an application whitelist. You can use an MDM solution, such as Windows Intune, to provide application whitelisting for Windows RT devices.

### Geolocation Data 05:18-06:36

Another key issue related to mobile device apps is geolocation data. Geolocation embeds GPS coordinates within mobile device files, such as an image or video file, created with the device's camera.

If geolocation is enabled, the device's GPS location at the time the file is created is embedded within the device files. This includes all pictures taken, such as those on your vacation, with co-workers at lunch, or in your cubicle.

This feature can be useful in some circumstances, but it can also create security concerns. If these pictures or videos are posted on the internet, an attacker can obtain information about you that you don't want them to have.

For example, let's say a user in your organization regularly posts images with geolocation embedded to a social media site like Facebook. A cybercriminal could analyze these images and quickly discover information, such as where the user works, who they work for, and where the user's cubicle is located. A cybercriminal could even derive the user's work hours, work projects, and personal work habits, such as the restaurant they go to for lunch.

All of this information can be compiled and used for social engineering attacks against the organization. Therefore, it is best practice to require that users disable the geolocation setting for mobile devices.

### Summary 06:36-06:57

In this lesson, we talked about mobile device application issues. We first talked about making sure you get apps from a reputable source. We talked about credential management and authentication. We looked at application whitelisting. Then we ended this lesson by talking about geotagging.

## 9.6.4 Enforcing Mobile Device Security Facts

One of the key problems associated with managing mobile devices is the fact that they can't be joined to a Windows domain. This means Group Policy can't be used to automatically push security settings to mobile devices.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Mobile device management (MDM)
   </li>
   <li>
    Windows Intune
   </li>
   <li>
    Windows Intune configurations
   </li>
   <li>
    System configuration for Windows Intune
   </li>
  </ul>

### Mobile Device Management (MDM)

One option you can use instead of Group Policy is mobile device management (MDM). Its security settings include the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Security settings can be manually configured on each individual
        device. This option doesn't require any additional infrastructure to be
        implemented. However, it can be a time-consuming task for the
        administrator (especially in a large organization with many mobile
        devices) and is not recommended.
   </li>
   <li>
    For devices running Apple's iOS operating system, security settings
        can be distributed in a configuration profile for users to install. The
        profile can be defined so that only an administrator can delete the
        profile, or you can lock the profile to the device so that it cannot be
        removed without completely erasing the device. This option also doesn't
        require any additional infrastructure for implementation. However, it
        does rely on the end user to actually implement the profile, which can
        be problematic. Additionally, it is not a dynamic strategy, so making
        even the smallest change to your mobile device security policies would
        require a great deal of effort to implement.
   </li>
   <li>
    A mobile device management solution that pushes security policies
        directly to each device over a network connection can be implemented.
        This option enables policies to be remotely enforced and updated without
        any action by the end user. Many companies have MDM products, including
        Apple, Cisco, and Microsoft.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Windows Intune

One widely used MDM solution is Windows Intune, which provides cloud-based mobile device management that allows you to remotely manage and secure mobile devices (as well as standard desktop systems starting with Windows 7 or later). Intune cannot be used to manage Windows Server.
The table below shows which operating systems Windows Intune currently supports:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Device</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Supported</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Apple</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Apple iOS 8.0 and later</li>
            <li>Mac OS X 10.9 and later</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Windows</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>
            Windows 10 (Home, S, Pro, Education, and Enterprise versions)
            </li>
            <li>Windows 10 Mobile</li>
            <li>Windows Phone 8.1</li>
            <li>Windows 8.1 RT</li>
            <li>PCs running Windows 8.1</li>
            <li>Devices running Windows 10 IoT Enterprise (x86, x64)</li>
            <li>Devices running Windows 10 IoT Mobile Enterprise</li>
            <li>Windows Holographic &amp; Windows Holographic Enterprise</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Google</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Google Android 4.0</li>
            <li>Google Android for Work</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

Customers with enterprise management + security (EMS) can also use Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) to register Windows 10 devices.

### Windows Intune Configurations

Windows Intune can be deployed in two different configurations:

<ul>
   <li>
    Intune Standalone is the recommended deployment method. Intune
        Standalone is a cloud-only solution that is managed using a web console
        that can be accessed from anywhere with internet access.
   </li>
   <li>
    Hybrid MDM with Configuration Manager is a solution that combines
        Intune's mobile device management capabilities into Configuration
        Manager. It uses Intune for policies, profiles, and applications for
        devices, but it uses Configuration Manager to administer content and
        manage the devices.
   </li>
  </ul>

> This course covers only cloud-only deployments. Deploying Intune in United Configuration Mode requires experience and skill beyond the scope of this course.

You must first sign up for an account at Microsoft's website before you can use Intune. After you sign up for an Intune account, you can manage the deployment using the following Intune Management Portals:

<ul>
   <li>
    Account Portal (https://account.manage.microsoft.com) is used to
        manage subscriptions, users, groups, and domains. End users can also use
        the account portal to manage their passwords.
   </li>
   <li>
    Admin Portal (https://admin.manage.microsoft.com) is used to manage
        enrolled devices and policies.
   </li>
   <li>
    Company Portal (https://portal.manage.microsoft.com) is used by end
        users to manage their own account and enroll devices.
   </li>
  </ul>

### System Configuration for Windows Intune

After signing up for a Windows Intune subscription, you need configure the system by completing the tasks listed in the table below:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Configuration Task
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Add Intune users</td>
        <td>
        Windows Intune uses administrative and standard users. The first
        user account created when you sign up for an Intune subscription is
        made an administrator by default. Additional standard users can be
        created and managed using the account console by selecting
        <b class="fw-bold"> Management </b>
        &gt;
        <b class="fw-bold"> Users </b>
        &gt;
        <b class="fw-bold"> New </b>
        &gt;
        <b class="fw-bold"> User </b>
        .
        <div class="info">
            <div class="to-info-box">
            <div class="to-info-box-body">
                <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"
                style="width:20px"><svg
                    aria-hidden="true"
                    focusable="false"
                    data-prefix="fal"
                    data-icon="circle-info"
                    class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info"
                    role="img"
                    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
                    viewBox="0 0 512 512">
                    <path
                    fill="currentColor"
                    d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"
                    ></path></svg></div>
                <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
                <span>
                    You can also synchronize users and groups into the account
                    console from your Active Directory domain.
                </span>
                </div>
            </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Define Intune policies</td>
        <td>
        Intune policies allow you to manage your mobile devices. You can
        perform tasks such as:
        <ul>
            <li>Configuring security settings</li>
            <li>Applying updates</li>
            <li>Configuring firewall settings</li>
        </ul>
        <div class="info">
            <div class="to-info-box">
            <div class="to-info-box-body">
                <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg
                    aria-hidden="true"
                    focusable="false"
                    data-prefix="fal"
                    data-icon="circle-info"
                    class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info"
                    role="img"
                    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
                    viewBox="0 0 512 512">
<path fill="currentColor"
d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
                <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
                <span>
                    Policy settings can be applied to both standalone and
                    domain-joined devices. However, policy conflicts can occur
                    with domain-joined devices. To prevent this from
                    happening, verify that domain-joined devices are not
                    configured to receive the same configuration settings from
                    both Active Directory Group Policies and Windows Intune.
                </span>
                </div>
            </div>
            </div>
        </div>
        <p>
            Intune provides the following policy templates containing
            recommended settings that you can deploy:
        </p>
        <ul>
            <li>Mobile Device Security Policy</li>
            <li>Windows Firewall settings</li>
            <li>Windows Intune Agent settings</li>
            <li>Windows Intune Center settings</li>
        </ul>
        <h2 class="fw-bold">Add Policy</h2>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Manage users and groups</td>
        <td>
        Windows Intune uses two types of groups:
        <ul>
            <li>
            User groups allow you to deploy software and mobile device
            security polices to specific user accounts.
            </li>
            <li>
            Device groups allow you to deploy software, Intune agent
            settings, and firewall settings to specific devices.
            </li>
        </ul>
        <h2 class="fw-bold">Group</h2>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Enroll computers</td>
        <td>
        You can enroll standard computer systems (desktops and notebooks) in
        Windows Intune in one of two ways:
        <ul>
            <li>
            Administrator enrollment requires an Intune administrator to set
            up the enrollment for a specific user.
            </li>
            <li>
            User enrollment allows a user to enroll a computer through the
            Company Portal.
            </li>
        </ul>
        Before you can enroll a system in Intune, you must first download
        and install the Intune client software on the computer. To do this
        using administrator enrollment, complete the following:
        <ol>
            <li>Open a browser and access the Admin Console.</li>
            <li>
            Select Administration &gt; Client Software Download &gt;
            <b class="fw-bold"> Download Client Software </b>
            .
            </li>
            <li>
            Once this zip file has downloaded, extract its contents and run
            the
            <b class="fw-bold"> Windows_Intune_Setup.exe </b>
            file as an administrator user.
            </li>
            <li>
            After the installation is complete, restart the computer.
            <br />
            <br />
            The newly managed computer should appear in the Intune Admin
            Console after a few minutes.
            </li>
        </ol>
        <h2 class="fw-bold">Link User</h2>
        <p>
            A user can self-enroll a computer by opening a browser, accessing
            the company portal, and logging in using his or her Intune user
            ID. Then he or she can select the option to enroll the current
            device. User-enrolled devices are automatically linked to the user
            ID that enrolled them.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Enroll mobile devices</td>
        <td>
        To enroll mobile devices in Intune, you must first enable mobile
        device management in the Admin Console. Select the Administration
        workspace; then select Mobile Device Management &gt;
        <b class="fw-bold"> Set Mobile Device Management Authority </b>
        &gt;
        <b class="fw-bold"> Yes </b>
        .
        <p>
            Users must configure mobile devices with the address of the Intune
            enrollment server (enterpriseenrollment-s.manage.microsoft.com)
            during the enrollment process. Be sure users are provided with
            this address prior to starting the device enrollment process.
        </p>
        <h2 class="fw-bold">Company Apps</h2>
        <p>
            If you want to enroll other types of mobile devices, you must
            configure Intune for each platform you plan to support. For
            example, if you want to manage iOS devices, you must obtain an
            Apple Push Notification service (APNs) certificate and then upload
            it to Intune. Alternatively, if you plan to support Windows Phone
            8 devices, you must get a Windows Phone Dev Center account and
            upload a signed enterprise mobile code certificate to Intune.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## 9.6.5 Enforcing Security Policies on Mobile Devices

### Configuring Microsoft Intune Security Policies 00:00-00:23

There are a lot of things you can do to secure your infrastructure. This is thanks to Microsoft's Intune. In this demonstration, we'll take some steps to secure our environment with Intune. We're going to take a look at Intune security policies, specifically some nice baselines that we're provided with that can really assist us in this manner.

### Security Baselines 00:23-00:44

So, what we do is search All Services here and do a search on baselines. This brings us to security baselines. There are these great Microsoft security baselines that we can call on to enact good, secure practices inside of our enterprise. These baselines include some basic security settings that we want to consider.

### Microsoft Edge Example 00:44-02:34

For example, there's a Microsoft Edge baseline here. We can go ahead and incorporate this into the security posture of our environment. Thanks to Profiles, we can link it in. So let's go ahead and take a look at that. Under Profiles, notice there are no profiles set up for this baseline. But we can easily change that. We'll go in and say this is my Edge profile. We could give it a description if we wanted to. It's automatically limited to Windows 10 and later. As of October 2019, that's Edge version 77 and later. So we'll say Next. Edge has a lot of settings. The defaults are to enable the supported authentication schemes and then list which ones those are. We can set those.

There's the Adobe Flash settings, extension controls, and the ability to save passwords in the software built into Edge. We have many security settings. Notice they're preset a certain way to give a good baseline of security when it comes to the Edge browser. Once we manipulate those, we can then set our scope tags and indicate where we want to assign them. We could go in and set it up for certain groups of users that we've defined, or we could always say we want to make sure this gets applied to every user and every device. The last step is to create this profile. So now we have this nice Edge profile based on this good Microsoft Edge security baseline that we have, and we can deploy this out to our systems.

Notice we've done that by assigning it to all of our devices. After the next sync of our clients, as far as their Edge settings go, they'll be in compliance with the security baseline that we borrowed from Microsoft. That's the one that Microsoft made available to us.

### Summary 02:34-03:02

And remember, there were other security baselines for you to look at, too. There's the Windows 10 security baseline, the Defender Advanced Threat Protection baseline, and then of course the Microsoft Edge baseline that we took a look at in this demonstration. Notice that these have versions, too; you're going to have situations where you get new additions of them from Microsoft, and the version increments at that point.

## 9.6.6 Sideload an App

### Sideload an App in Windows 10 00:00-00:39

In this demonstration, we'll walk through the process of sideloading an app on a Windows 10 workstation system.

Sideloading is the act of installing apps that we create or own on a Windows system without going through the Microsoft Store. This is a significant change from earlier versions of Windows, such as Windows 8 and Windows 8.1.

In Windows 8 and 8.1, sideloading an app was discouraged, and was therefore very difficult to implement. On Windows 10 that has all changed. Sideloading is relatively easy now. With that in mind, let's walk through the process that you need to follow in order to sideload an app.

### Configure Windows to Allow Sideloading in Windows Settings 00:39-01:34

The first thing we must do is configure Windows to allow sideloading because sideloading is typically not allowed by default. To do this, you right-click Start and select Settings app. Then go to Update and Security > For Developers. Here you have three options.

First, there is Microsoft Store apps, then Sideload apps, and finally Developer mode. This is already set to allow Sideloading apps, so we don't have to change anything. On some versions of Windows, the top option, Microsoft Store, is set as the default. When you change to Sideload apps, you get a message warning of the danger of installing an app by sideloading rather than going through the Microsoft Store.

You can also go into Developer mode. It is similar to the sideloading option, but it also includes advanced development features, which we're not going to work with today. We're just going to use the Sideload apps option. Close this window.

### Configure Windows to Allow Sideloading in Group Policy 01:34-03:16

There is another way you can enable sideloading an app and that is through the Group Policy Editor. The great thing about Group Policy is that if you do this on the domain, all systems on the domain that are assigned this Group Policy will be able to sideload an app.

Deciding if you want to do that or not depends on the number of systems involved. To show you how to do that, we'll go into the Local Group Policy and configure this. Remember, you typically would do this on the server, but the settings are the same.

Go down to Search, type ‘gpedit', and then select Edit Group Policy from the list. The Local Group Policy Editor opens. We'll adjust the size so we can see things better.

Under Computer Configuration, expand Administrative Templates, Windows Components and select App Package Deployment. Next, double-click this setting right here, Allow all trusted apps to install.

When the dialog box opens you will see that by default it's set to Not Configured. We can enable it here, if we want. We're not going to enable it because we already did in the Settings App. This is just another way of doing it, especially if your system is part of a domain.

As always, down here under Help, you can read more about what this setting does if you are not sure. Let's exit out of these windows now.

With sideloading enabled, now we can practice sideloading an app. First, you must have an app to sideload. We've already done that on this system. You could create your own app, but who has time for that?

For this demo, we downloaded one and saved it to the hard disk. Key thing here is that we did not use the Microsoft Store. We determined where this app was hosted on the web and downloaded it. Note that this app has an APPX file extension. This file is the app that we're going to sideload.

### View the Security Certificate 03:16-04:13

Before continuing, we want to check the security certificate for this app. We downloaded the app from the internet, so, you want to make sure the digital signature is OK before you install it. Also keep in mind, if this was an app that we created, we'd have to create a certificate and install that certificate.

Without a certificate, Windows will not allow that app to install. We know this because we tried to do it and guess what? It doesn't work. There are probably work arounds to make it work but that is beyond the scope of this demo.

So, let's check the digital signature of this app. We'll right-click and go to Properties and click the Digital Signatures tab. Next, we'll select the certificate in the Signature list box. Click Details. Under Digital Signature Information, it says, "Hey, this signature is OK." That's a positive thing and we should not have any problems with our app. Click Cancel to close the dialog box.

### Sideload the App 04:13-06:22

So, now we have enabled sideloading on the system. We've checked the certificate that was used to sign the app and we've verified that the signature on the app file is valid. The next thing we must do is to sideload the app.

Starting with the Windows 10 Anniversary Edition, you can double click the APPX file and install the app. When we do that, the app installer launches. Here, you can see the name of the app, publisher info, version, and some other info.

If we click Install, the app installs. Let's do things the hard way. We'll install this app using a PowerShell cmdlet. The first thing we must do is run PowerShell. Close the installer here.

We'll right-click the Start and then click Windows PowerShell (Admin). We'll elevate privileges and PowerShell opens.

To make things easier, we put the app into a folder on the C: drive named Install. Let's change directories and go to that folder. To do that type ‘cd c:/Install' and press Enter. Let's do a ‘dir' command to see the contents of the folder. The APPX file is there. This makes things easier as you will see in a minute.

Now that we're in the right directory, all we do is type 'Add-AppPackage' followed by the name of the package file that we want to install. We type ‘./' and instead of typing out this long filename, we'll highlight it, select Edit, right-click, choose Copy, come down here and right-click. When we do, it gets pasted in. Hit Enter and wait a minute while the app is installed on the system.

Something happened, but are we sure? Well, let's see if the app is installed. We'll close these windows, click Start, and scroll down to find the app we just installed. Click it and it opens.

If for some reason we don't want this app any longer, we can uninstall it like we do any Microsoft Store app. You find it in the list, right-click, select Uninstall, select it from the list again, click Uninstall again, and the app is gone.

### Summary 06:22-06:45

That's it for this demo. In this demonstration we walked through the process for sideloading an app on Windows 10. First, you must have the app that you want to install. Then you must enable sideloading. You verify that the digital signature on the app is valid, and then use the add appx package PowerShell command to install the app file.
