---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.2 Virtual Networking
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How does a virtual network differ from a physical network?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is a Virtual Private Network (VPN)?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is a virtual machine?
    </li>
    <li>
     What terms are associated with virtualization and what do they mean?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP)?
    </li>
    <li>
     How can physical devices become virtual ones?
    </li>
    <li>
     Who are some of the network virtualization service providers?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure virtual network devices.
- Create virtual switches.

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Virtual network
    </td>
    <td>
     A computer network consisting of virtual and physical devices.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual area
     <br>
     network
     <br>
     (VAN)
    </td>
    <td>
     A virtual LAN running on top of a physical LAN.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual private network
     <br>
     (VPN)
    </td>
    <td>
     A secure tunnel to another network that connects multiple remote end-points.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual machine
     <br>
     (VM)
    </td>
    <td>
     A virtual computer that functions like a physical computer.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual switch
     <br>
     (vSwitch)
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that facilitates the communication between virtual machines by checking data packets
        before moving them to a destination.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual router
     <br>
     (vRouter)
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that replicates the functionality of a physical router.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual firewall appliance
     <br>
     (vFA)
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that functions as a network firewall device. A virtual firewall appliance provides packet filtering and monitoring functions.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual machine
     <br>
     monitor (VMM)/hypervisor
    </td>
    <td>
     Software, firmware, or hardware that creates and runs virtual machines.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     3.0 Host and Application Defense
     <blockquote>
      3.2 Implement Application Defenses
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      3.6	Given a scenario, apply cybersecurity solutions to the cloud.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Network
       <ul>
        <li>
         Virtual networks
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 9.2.1 Virtual Networking Overview

### Virtual Networking Implementations 00:00-00:35

One of the benefits of virtualization is the fact that the network environment can be virtualized, as well as the hardware environment. Each virtual machine on a hypervisor can be assigned a virtual network adapter. The virtual network adapter can be connected to either a physical network segment or to a virtual network segment. A virtual network segment has all the components that you would find on a physical network segment. You have the virtual network adapters, you have virtual network switches, and so on.

### How Virtual Bridging Works 00:35-02:23

Let's take a look at how a virtual network works. Over here we have a typical physical network switch; we have traditional user desktops all interconnected using the switch and standard UTP cable, but notice over here that we also have a hypervisor host. This hypervisor host is also connected to the physical network switch with a UTP cable just like any other physical host would be. However, within the hypervisor we have four virtual machines running. One option for configuring virtual networking for these virtual machines is to take their virtual network adapters and bridge them logically--not with actual physical cables--but logically to the physical network interface installed in the hypervisor host, which of course is connected to the physical switch.

By doing this, each of these virtual machines then appears on the physical network as if they were a physical host, just like the systems over here are. The virtual adapter in each one of these virtual machines has their own MAC address and their own IP address. Therefore, they appear to be just a regular host on the physical network. This isn't the only option you have when networking virtual machines. In this example, we've created a virtual switch within the hypervisor. This is not a physical switch with real ports; instead, it's a switch that's running as software in the RAM of the hypervisor itself.

You can actually connect each one of these virtual network adapters and each one of these virtual machines to this virtual switch. We've depicted it here with what appears to be drop cables, but they're not really drop cables they're just logical electrical connections using the hardware, the hypervisor itself, to connect the virtual network adapters to this virtual switch. By doing this, we've created a virtual network segment.

### Creating a Sandbox 02:23-03:22

Notice that this virtual switch is not connected in any way to the physical interface and the hypervisor at this time. Therefore, each one of these virtual machines can see each other on the virtual network through the virtual switch, but they cannot see any of these hosts out here on the physical network. This is sometimes called a sandbox environment. If you wanted to, you could actually connect the hypervisor itself to this virtual switch so the hypervisor can interact with these virtual machines on the virtual network. But it still keeps these virtual machines themselves isolated from the physical network and this can be a very valuable configuration, especially if you're in a testing environment.

For example, suppose you're about to roll out a new patch to all of your physical servers. You could set up virtual servers connected to an isolated virtual switch within the hypervisor and then test that update to see if it's going to break anything before you actually roll it out into your production environment. You can even create a router within your hypervisor.

### Using a NAT Router 03:22-04:02

In this case, we've set up a net router that connects our virtual network segment to the physical switch through the physical interface in the hypervisor. In this scenario, we've essentially created a virtual network segment that goes to the NAT router and then out on to your physical network segment. In this configuration, all of these internal virtual hosts are able to contact these physical hosts out here. However, because we're dealing with a NAT router, we can't initiate connections in the other direction of course, but you can go out in this direction. These hosts would be able to get out on the internet, for example, and download patches and updates.

Virtualizing the Network Infrastructure 04:02-05:49
There are a variety of different ways in which virtualization could be implemented. For example, you could implement virtualize servers. However, you could also virtualize desktops, using the virtual desktop interface, or VDI. There are actually many ways to do this. For example, you could create multiple virtual desktops on the same local workstation host. This is very useful in a situation where you're testing an application on multiple platforms to make sure that it runs properly. Another strategy would be to implement multiple desktops on one physical server, and then allow all of your end users to access those virtual desktops remotely.

Essentially, all of your user desktops are provided as virtual machines from a limited number of hypervisor hosts. This strategy could save you a lot of money in your desktop budget. You simply purchase a few high-end servers that will host the hypervisor and as desktop virtual machines. The end users on the other hand will require only very low-end workstations. In fact, they don't even need a hard drive if you have a basic operating system in the firmware of the system. These low-end workstations connect remotely to the hypervisor server and then run the desktop. You can even use virtualization to provide offsite virtualized network components.

For example, you could use virtualization to move your entire data center offsite. Instead of managing it onsite, it's taken care of by a vendor whose physical facility might be miles away from your physical location. In this scenario, the vendor manages your hardware and your software to provide the virtual network that's accessed by your end users. This can be very useful because it only requires very minimal hardware to be maintained at your physical site.

### Summary 05:49-06:21

That's it for this lesson. It's important that you're familiar with how virtualization works. Almost all organizations are moving in that direction because of the cost savings associated with virtualization. In this lesson, we talked about how virtual bridging works. We talked about creating a sandbox with virtual networking. We talked about using a NAT router with virtual networking, and then we talked about virtualizing the network infrastructure.

## 9.2.2 Virtual Network Devices

### Virtual Network Devices 00:00-00:24

Let's talk a little bit about virtual networks. A virtual network is a computer network consisting of virtual and physical devices. Virtual devices save organizations money. By using less physical storage space, a company is able to have at least twice as many devices in a network because they pay for very little space in a data center.

### Protocol-Based Virtualization 00:24-01:07

One form of network virtualization is protocol-based. You should already be familiar with this type of virtualization. VLANs and VPNs are two examples of protocol-based network virtualization.

Remember, with a VLAN, the network devices aren't physically segmented. The only thing that segments these devices is software defining how communications are routed by looking at the VLAN IDs of packets. The same is true with a VPN. There's no dedicated, physical connection between two devices using a VPN. It's a virtualized dedicated connection.

Now, let's go over some virtual networking devices and how they can be used to create a more secure network design.

### vSwitch 01:07-02:13

The first network device we'll look at is a virtual switch, or vSwitch. A vSwitch is a software application that facilitates the communication between VMs by checking data packets before moving them to a destination. vSwitches are often integrated with virtual machine software. Sometimes, they're even part of a server's firmware.

The nice thing about a vSwitch is it's much easier to implement and manage than a traditional switch. In addition, a vSwitch can actually ensure the security integrity of virtual hosts, thereby creating a more secure network. For example, a vSwitch could make sure that a VM meets certain security criteria before it is allowed to communicate on the virtual network. If it fails the security check, its communications will be blocked.

Some of the most common vSwitch platforms are Open vSwitch (OVS), VMware virtual switch, and the Cisco Nexus 1000v. All three can function within a software-defined network as an SDN controller, allowing a much more dynamic network environment.

### vRouter 02:13-02:51

A virtual router, or vRouter, is a software function that replicates a physical router.

The nice thing about a virtual router is that it doesn't need to rely on the IP routing functionality used by physical routers. This means you can move routing functions around a network freely, creating a more dynamic network environment.

In addition, when you use a virtual router, you are free from a specific vendor ecosystem. This means you aren't locked in to proprietary applications or protocols and can more customize your networking environment. Virtual routers even work well with SDN infrastructure.

### Drawbacks of Virtual Networking Devices 02:51-03:49

Note that, while virtual networking devices can be very flexible and offer a lot of benefits, they still aren't a replacement for physical networking devices.

Virtual networking devices use shared hardware resources, making them a poor choice for resource-intensive tasks, such as encrypting and decrypting information. Load balancing can also become an issue as the resources used to route, switch, and load-balance communication are shared among the devices.

Another drawback is all of these components rely on software applications and are susceptible to things like VM escape. If your entire network is virtualized, there is no physical boundary between certain systems. With physically segmented systems, it is impossible for an attacker to leap between segments without physical access. With virtual segmentation, an attacker only needs to know of an exploit that allows the leap.

### Summary 03:49-04:14

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we looked at virtual networking devices. We looked at protocol-based virtualization, virtual switches, and virtual routers. We looked at how these virtual devices can benefit a networking environment. And we finished by looking at some of the drawbacks of virtual networking devices.

## 9.2.3 Configuring Virtual Network Devices

### Configuring Virtual Network Devices 00:00-00:12

In this demonstration we're going to take a look at how to manage virtual devices. There are two types of virtual devices that we can easily manage from here.

### Virtual Switches 00:12-01:22

One would be virtual switches, and I'm using the server version of Hyper-V, which is running on a Windows Server 2019. It's essentially the same as the client version, but all virtualization programs are going to have some type of virtual switch management so in Hyper-V, we're going to go into Virtual Switch Manager. The virtual switch should be created before you create your virtual machines. Now in Hyper-V we have different types of virtual switches. For example, I can make a private switch, and I'll just click 'Create Virtual Switch.' The private switch allows the virtual machines to talk to each other, and that's it. If I wanted to do an internal network, they could talk to the other virtual machines, they can talk between themselves and to the host, but they can't get to the outside network.

Or I could do an external network where they can actually use the network card of the host directly, and you can see there's a check mark here 'Allow management operating system to share this network adapter.' That means I'm using the one network adapter both for the virtual machines and the host. If this were a real server environment, it would be best practice to put in a couple of network cards, then let the host use one of the network cards and let the virtual machines use the other network card.

### Enabling VLANs 01:22-02:00

I can also enable VLANs on my virtual switches if I'm using VLANs. I've got a couple of private switches here, private and private 2. I've got an external switch Internet, I've got plenty to work with. After you set up your virtual switches, then what you want to do is connect the virtual network cards that are in the virtual machines to the virtual switch. We're going to take a look at the settings in this test VM that I have here and see what goes on.

I have a synthetic network adapter already installed in this machine, and it's connected to the private network. Again, if I'm using VLANs, I can enable VLAN identification. Depending on your virtualization system, you may have other bells and whistles.

### Other Features 02:00-03:10

For example, I can enable bandwidth management, so that this virtual machine can't take over the bandwidth of the network card. I've also got some other features inside here if I expand the network card. For example, in here I can do some IPsec offloading, so the network card will do some of the IPsec work. If I'm doing encryption using IPsec, I can specify exactly how it's going to do that. I also have advanced features where I can change the MAC address to what I want it to be, or I can enable MAC spoofing, which is required to support network load balancing. I've got DHCP guard that will prevent this virtual machine from being used as a rogue DHCP server. I've got router guard that will prevent it from being used as a rogue router, and then I can also say it's a protected network, which means if its network is disconnected, if this machine were participating in high availability solution, this machine would fail over to the other node in that particular cluster.

Port mirroring, it allows me to send a copy of network traffic to another machine if I'm using it for monitoring. Let's say I'm using a product like Network Monitor or Wireshark, or I can do NIC Teaming, so that I can have a couple of these adapters in the guest operating system and line them together either for aggregate bandwidth or fault tolerance.

### Summary 03:10-03:19

In this demonstration, we looked at the different options for managing virtual devices.

## 9.2.4 Virtualization Implementation Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Virtual networking
- Networking virtualization providers

### Virtual Networking

A virtual network is made up of one or more virtual machines configured to access local or external network resources. Important facts about virtual networks include the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Virtual machines support an unlimited number of virtual networks. Also be aware that an unlimited number of virtual
    machines can be connected to a virtual network.
   </li>
   <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
    <ul>
     <li>
      Multiple virtual networks can be associated with a single physical network adapter.
     </li>
     <li>
      When a virtual network is created, its configuration is dependent on the configuration and physical hardware (such as
        the type and number of network adapters) of the host operating system.
     </li>
     <li>
      The physical devices are partitioned into one or more virtual devices, depending on the network necessity and the
        device capability.
     </li>
     <li>
      When setting up a new virtual device, the system administrator will define how much of the physical device capability
        each partition will have. This means that one physical server could act as two or three virtual machines that work
        separately from one another and have their own specifications.
     </li>
     <li>
      The available resources in a network are split up so the available bandwidth is turned into channels. Each channel can
        each be assigned to a particular server or device in real time. Each channel is independently secured.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    A virtual network includes a virtual Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server that can provide IP address leases
    only to virtual machines. Even though the DHCP server is isolated, it assigns unique IP addresses from the range
    specified.
   </li>
   <li>
    Accessing a network and network resources requires that the operating system on the virtual machine be configured as a part
    of the network.
   </li>
   <li>
    Internal network virtualization configures a single system with software containers, or pseudo-interfaces, to emulate a
    physical network with software. This can improve a single system's efficiency by isolating applications to separate
    containers or pseudo-interfaces.
   </li>
   <li>
    External network virtualization combines one or more LANs into virtual networks to improve a large network's
    efficiency. Using this technology, systems physically attached to the same local network can be configured to be separate
    virtual networks. Systems from separate LANs can also be combined into a single VLAN that spans segments of a large
    network.
   </li>
   <li>
    Network virtualization should allow a virtual network, including all of its IP addresses, routes, network appliances, and
    so on, to appear to be running directly on the physical network. This allows the servers connected to that virtual network to
    continue to operate as if they were running directly on the physical network, even though multiple virtual networks share the
    physical network.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Network Virtualization Providers

Some of the main network virtualization service providers are:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Provider
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     VMware
    </td>
    <td>
     Be aware of the following regarding VMware solutions.
     <ul>
      <li>
       VMware introduced the first x86 server virtualization products in 2001, making it a virtualization pioneer.
      </li>
      <li>
       VMware desktop software runs on Microsoft Windows, Linux, and macOS, while its enterprise software hypervisor for
          servers, VMware ESXi, is a bare-metal hypervisor that runs directly on server hardware without requiring an additional
          underlying operating system.
      </li>
      <li>
       ESXi is primarily used for data center virtualization.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Microsoft
    </td>
    <td>
     Microsoft solutions include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Hyper-V Network Virtualization that provides virtual networks to virtual machines. This is similar to how server
          virtualization (hypervisor) provides virtual machines to the operating system. Hyper-V Network Virtualization has high
          scalability, with capacity for over 1,000 virtual machines per host.
      </li>
      <li>
       Microsoft Azure that provides network virtualization in the cloud.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Citrix
    </td>
    <td>
     Citrix virtualization solutions:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Provide a virtualization solution called XenServer, also referred to as Citrix Hypervisor.
      </li>
      <li>
       Support the widest range of graphics applications.
      </li>
      <li>
       Support Intel GVT-g GPU virtualization, a CPU-embedded GPU requiring no additional hardware.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 9.2.5 Virtual Networking Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Virtual networks
- Virtual networking devices

### Virtual Networks

A virtual network is a computer network consisting of virtual and physical devices. Organizations generally use virtual devices to save money. By using less physical storage space, a company is able to have considerably more devices in a network while using very little space in a data center. With virtualization, companies can take advantage of the efficiencies and agility of software-based devices and storage resources.

The physical networking devices are responsible for forwarding of packets, while the virtual network (software) provides an intelligent abstraction that makes it easy to deploy and manage network services and underlying network resources.

Following are some network virtualization terms to be familiar with:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN)
    </td>
    <td>
     Several physical LANs can function as a single logical LAN, or the
        partitioned network can be on a single router.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual Area Network (VAN)
    </td>
    <td>
     This is a virtual LAN running on top of a physical LAN. This configuration
        enables guest virtual machines on separate physical hosts to communicate.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual Private Network (VPN)
    </td>
    <td>
     A VPN is usually used as a secure tunnel over another network, connecting
        multiple remote end-points, such as routers. A multipoint VPN is a VPN connecting more than two end-points.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual Machine (VM)
    </td>
    <td>
     VMs are virtual computers that function like a physical computer. Virtual servers are
        virtual machines capable of providing services such as databases, email, domains, and applications. The traffic between virtual machines can be routed using virtual switches alongside virtual routers and virtual firewalls for network segmentation and data isolation.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Virtual Networking Devices

The following table describes virtual networking devices that can be used to create a more secure network.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Device
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Virtual switch (vSwitch)
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that facilitates the communication between virtual machines by
        checking data packets before moving them to a destination. A vSwitch may be a part of software installed in the
        virtual machine or it may be part of the server firmware.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual router (vRouter)
    </td>
    <td>
     A software function that replicates the functionality of a physical router. Because
        virtual routing liberates the IP routing function from specific hardware, you can more freely move routing functions around a network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual firewall appliance (VFA)
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that functions as a network firewall device that provides the
        usual packet filtering and monitoring. The VF can run as a traditional software firewall on a virtual machine.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virtual machine monitor/hypervisor (VMM/hypervisor)
    </td>
    <td>
     Software, firmware, or hardware that creates and runs virtual
        machines. A computer on which a hypervisor runs to provide one or more virtual machines is called a host machine. Each virtual machine is called a guest machine. The hypervisor provides the guest operating systems with a virtual operating platform and manages the execution of the guest operating systems.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
