---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.9 Embedded and Specialized Systems
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- How can you minimize the damage of compromised embedded devices?
- What are common static environments within the Internet of Things (IoT)?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Recognize embedded devices and systems.
- Secure embedded devices.
- Identify communication methods of embedded devices.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Term</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Definition</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)</td>
        <td>
        SCADA is an industrial computer system that monitors and controls a
        process.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Internet of Things</td>
        <td>
        The network of physical devices such as vehicles, home appliances,
        etc., that are embedded with electronics, software, sensors,
        actuators, and connectivity that enable them to connect, collect,
        and exchange data through the internet.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Arduino</td>
        <td>
        Arduino is an open-source hardware and software platform for
        building electronic projects.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Raspberry Pi</td>
        <td>
        Raspberry Pi is a low-cost device the size of a credit card that's
        powered by the Python programming language. It's manufactured into a
        single system on a chip (SoC).
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)</td>
        <td>FPGA is an integrated circuit that the customer configures.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Subscriber identity module (SIM) card</td>
        <td>A SIM card encrypts data transmission and stores information.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Zigbee</td>
        <td>
        Zigbee is a radio protocol that creates low-rate private area
        networks.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Exam</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Objective</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>TestOut Security Pro</td>
        <td>
        2.0 Physical and Network Security
        <blockquote>2.2 Harden Network Devices</blockquote>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CompTIA Security+ SY0-601</td>
        <td>
        2.6 Explain the security implications of embedded and specialized
        systems.
        <ul>
            <li>
            System control and data acquisition (SCADA)/industrial control
            system (ICS)
            <ul>
                <li>Facilities</li>
                <li>Industrial</li>
                <li>Manufacturing</li>
                <li>Energy</li>
                <li>Logistics</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
            Internet of Things (IoT)
            <ul>
                <li>Sensors</li>
                <li>Smart devices</li>
                <li>Wearable Devices</li>
                <li>Facility automation</li>
                <li>Weak defaults</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
            Specialized
            <ul>
                <li>Aircraft</li>
                <li>Smart meters</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>Voice over IP (VoIP)</li>
            <li>Heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC)</li>
            <li>Drones/AVs</li>
            <li>Multifunction printer (MFP)</li>
            <li>
            Communication considerations
            <ul>
                <li>5G</li>
                <li>Narrow-band</li>
                <li>Baseband radio</li>
                <li>Subscriber identity module (SIM) cards</li>
                <li>Zigbee</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
            Constraints
            <ul>
                <li>Power</li>
                <li>Compute</li>
                <li>Network</li>
                <li>Crypto</li>
                <li>Inability to patch</li>
                <li>Authentication</li>
                <li>Range</li>
                <li>Cost</li>
                <li>Implied trust</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## 9.9.1 Embedded and Specialized Systems

### Embedded and Specialized Systems 00:00-00:25

Today's smart technology is being embedded into devices like TVs, kitchen appliances, environmental controls, and even industrial equipment. And it's becoming increasingly common. These devices are sometimes referred to as static environments because they weren't designed to be customized or modified in any way by you, the network administrator.

### SCADA 00:25-02:10

Smart tech history is connected with supervisory control and data acquisition systems. We just call them SCADA. This infrastructure manages automated factory equipment that relies on the smart technology embedded in modern devices.

As its name suggests, SCADA systems provide two general functions: supervisory control and data acquisition. The first controls remote equipment over a network connection. The second gathers information from those remote devices, allowing you to monitor their status.

Using network connectivity, SCADA systems can manage industrial equipment a long distance away from a control center. This is sometimes called a distributed control system, or DCS. To make this work, SCADA systems have several different components. First, there's a central supervisory computer that communicates with and sends control commands out to connected SCADA devices. The devices have remote terminal units, or RTUs. The RTUs connect the equipment to the network, which enables them to receive commands from the supervisory system and then send status information back.

Alternatively, SCADA equipment might have programmable logic controllers, or PLCs, installed. PLCs connect the SCADA equipment to the network just like RTUs. The difference is that they're usually less expensive.

Another important component is the type of network link used to connect the supervisory computer to the RTUs or PLCs. Some of the most common options include a standard internet connection, a satellite link, a private WAN link, or even a simple modem connection over a telephone line.

### IoT 02:10-03:02

When talking about smart technology and SCADA, we can't forget the Internet of Things, or IoT.

IoT is a natural extension of SCADA. Its evolution is such that late-generation SCADA systems developed into first-generation IoT systems. An IoT ecosystem is made up of web-enabled smart devices that use embedded processors, sensors, and communication hardware to collect, send, and act on data they gather from their environments.

One important aspect of newer IoT devices is the operating system they use because these offer connectivity, usability, and interoperability.

One of these operating systems is called RIOT OS. It requires few resources and is very energy efficient. It's used on embedded systems, actuator boards, and sensors.

### IoT 03:02-03:40

Another is ARM Mbed OS. This OS is primarily used with low-power technology such as wearable devices. In other words, any mobile device that's meant to be worn somewhere on the body. These

devices can be as simple as a step-tracking wristband or as complex as a virtual reality headset. Most wearable devices are designed to interface with another device.

For example, a smartwatch by itself has a limited set of functions. But when you connect it to a smartphone through Bluetooth, you get added functionality like text messaging or being able to answer phone calls.

### IoT 03:40-04:02

Back to the operating systems now. RealSense OS X is used in Intel's depth-sensing technology for cameras and sensors. Then there's Nucleus and Integrity RTOS, which are both used for aerospace, industrial, automotive, and medical devices. When it comes to drones and robots, Ubuntu Core or Snappy are usually preferred.

### Mobile Devices 04:02-05:58

Whether it's a tablet, smartphone, or an e-reader, all mobile devices share some characteristics. The most common is the power source. The power source is typically a lithium ion battery rated in milliamp hours. The larger the number, the greater the battery capacity. For example, the average smartphone battery is about 2,000 milliamp hours while a notebook battery is about 6,000 milliamp hours.

Another characteristic is a mobile device's storage.

To extend battery life, mobile devices use some sort of non-volatile flash memory to store information. Because no moving parts need to be powered, flash memory is a more energy-efficient storage medium. In addition, a lot of mobile devices have expandable storage in the form of micro-SD cards. This allows mobile devices to increase their storage to upwards of 200 gigabytes.

Mobile devices need connectivity to the internet and to other mobile devices. To do this, they use a variety of wireless connection mediums. For example, the typical smartphone utilizes 802.11, Bluetooth, and cellular wireless technologies.

Mobile devices also have internal sensors that collect environmental data, usually with a GPS chip. They use these chips to calculate the device's location information, which you can use for navigation and for finding your device if you happen to lose it.

Another internal sensor is called an accelerometer. This is a sensor that detects movement on a single plane, typically the horizontal plane. It detects when a mobile device is turned sideways and tells the device to change the screen's orientation.

A third sensor is a gyroscope. It also detects movement, but instead of detecting movement on a single plane, it detects horizontal and vertical movements. If you've ever played a game on a smartphone or tablet that requires you to tilt the device, you've used a gyroscope.

### Smart Devices 05:58-06:50

A key issue with smart technology is that there's little to no ability to modify the technology within. As a result, it's very difficult to manage security. For example, you can't install anti-malware software on a smart refrigerator or on an HVAC system even though there are significant security risks associated with them.

For example, in early 2014 the first documented IoT attack occurred. This attack leveraged smart devices to conduct a rather pervasive, malicious email-phishing exploit.

The trouble is that because smart devices are becoming more commonplace, we tend to forget about them. In addition, smart device vendors are slow to protect their products proactively because of cost constraints. For this reason, it's even more important for you as an administrator to secure your network against any possible smart device attacks.

### Raspberry Pi 06:50-07:33

It's also good to keep physical security in mind. When an attacker discovers a rogue access point, they're able to run various types of vulnerability scanners from outside the company. But if they gain physical access, they can hide a physical rogue access point as well. This is often done by configuring an extremely compact and powerful hardware device called a Raspberry Pi.

Just like smart device attacks, a rogue access point attack happens simply because a network administrator didn't properly configure the legitimate access points. Maybe he or she didn't implemented proper security measures in the beginning and eventually just forgot about them altogether. This is known as access point misconfiguration.

### Defense Against Attacks 07:33-07:51

To defend against these attacks, there are a few things you can do. First, have a solid firewall design in place. Second, have intrusion detection. Or better yet, install intrusion-protection devices. Third, have very strong organizational security policies in place so that you're not caught off guard.

### Summary 07:51-08:20

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we looked at security risks associated with embedded and specialized systems. We talked about SCADA, IoT, smart devices, and mobile devices. We talked about the security risks associated with these devices as well as with Raspberry Pi. We ended this lesson by talking about how you can defend yourself from distributed attacks leveled against these smart devices.

## 9.9.2 Smart Home

### Smart Devices 00:00-00:30

Everyone seeks convenience and connectivity whether you are at work, home, in the car or wherever. Smart devices are showing up nearly everywhere. It could be your thermostat, light switches, light bulbs, electrical plugs, security cameras, door locks, sprinkler systems, and even digital speakers such as Google Home or Amazon Echo.

There are hundreds of these devices and more coming on the market all the time. It would be simply impossible to cover all of them, but we are going to take a look at a few of them in this demo.

### Speaker and Digital Assistants 00:30-02:38

The first one, and one of the very popular, is the Amazon Echo. The Echo is a smart speaker that is controlled by voice. It responds to voice commands when you use a "wake word," which is normally Alexa.

The device is capable of doing things such as playing music, making a to-do list, setting alarms, providing weather info, along with all sorts of other things. It can also be used in conjunction with other smart devices to control devices such as lights, security cameras, and so on. One of my favorite things to do at home is to use Bluetooth to pair Alexa with my surround sound system and stream music.

Most smart devices are managed with an app and the Echo is no different. Let's take a look at the Amazon Echo app on an Android Device. Here is a Google Pixel phone and I have my Amazon Alexa app on it. Let's go ahead and open it.

The first thing I can see are some things to try, followed by some of the recent things that it has done. As you can see, we have some music lovers that use the Echo.

Let's go up to our menu and then down at the bottom. We will tap on our settings. When we do that, we get a new screen. The first thing we can look at is the Alexa account. Here we do things such as train Alexa to recognize our voice. Perhaps we have an accent and want to train Alexa to recognize it better.

Below that, we can tell Alexa that it is OK to use voice commands to purchase items. If we go into that, we can see that we can require a code confirming the purchase of items. If that was not the case, I could see some issues with impulse shopping. Let's go back.

Next is the Alexa Voice Responses. Alexa is configured to respond in short replies which is the default.

The Amazon Household is a feature to allow other users to use this device to do things such as purchase products and services, using the Voice Purchasing feature.

Below that is History. Here you can see a list of things that Alexa has been asked to do. As you can see it can be quite detailed. Although you must use the "wake word" first, some feel that these smart speakers, may be listening to us a little too much at times.

The last selection will take you to the Amazon website where you can view more history items, frequently asked questions, the privacy notice, and the terms of use for the device.

The Echo can work with other smart devices. Let's tap down here on the lower right on the Smart Devices Icon.

### Smart Light 02:38-03:57

The first thing we have is the Echo & Alexa group. If I tap on that, you can see that I have a couple of Echo's connected. If I tap on the first one, Dana's Echo, you can then see some addition information such as connected devices, the Wi-Fi information, and so on. Let's go back a couple of screens.

Next, we have Lights. This is a smart light located on the front door of my home. If I look at it, I can see that currently that light is on. If I tap it, it will go off. If I tap the icon below, Create a Routine, I could configure this light to come on at night and go off during the day. Now for this to work with this Echo, I had to use the Set this up on the app that came with the light, in order for this to work.

I'm going to go back a few screens and tap on Plugs. This is for a smart plug that is in our home and connected to a lamp. When I tap this here, I can turn this lamp off or on. This is also configured to work with voice commands. I can say, "Alexa, light off." And she would turn that light off.

If I tap on the Lamp, I can once again see that at the bottom I can tap here to create a routine for this plug to come off or on, either at certain times or use specially configured voice commands to do so.

Now, we saw how the smart plug was connected and we had a lamp plugged into it. Let's take a look at that app and see how that is configured. I'll exit my Amazon Echo app and go into my Smart Plug app.

### Smart Plugs 03:57-04:53

OK, we are in our app and here you can see that I have one smart plug and I named it Lamp. From this app, I can turn the plug, which the lamp is plugged into, off and on. The button is green letting me know that it is now on.

If I had other smart devices from this manufacturer, they would be listed here. To add a device, I would tap the plus icon up here, and here we can see a list of all the different types of devices that I would be able to add. I don't have any additional devices but if I did, I would tap the type of device and this app would walk me through the installation and setup.

For example, if I had a smart bulb, I could just tap here. You can see that it tells me what to do. I don't have any of these, so I'll back out of here.

Finally, if I tap on the selection, Works with Kasa, I can see some of the other smart devices that are compatible with this device. You can see Amazon Alexa in this list. As we saw earlier, this smart plug works with my Amazon Echo.

### Smart Security Cameras 04:53-06:41

The final thing we will look at are some security cameras. Once again, the manufacture uses a mobile device app to setup and configure the security cameras. The app is also used to view the video clips.

Now this system has three cameras set up and configured. Each one can be configured individually by tapping these setting next to the main icon. Here you can name each camera and check it's battery life. This system uses batteries, so they can be installed anywhere, as long as it can get my Wi-Fi signal.

It also shows me the temperature where the camera is mounted and if the camera is enabled or not. The retrigger time is the amount of time between the time it first senses motion and when I want it to start recording again a second or third time. I have this set to 10 seconds.

Since the street is in view of the camera and we have cars going by occasionally, I don't want it picking up every single car, so I have the sensitivity set to 3. Only large vehicles from the street set off this camera, but it still picks up anything that comes in the front yard.

The clip length is set to 25 seconds. If there is more motion after that, the camera will retrigger and record for another 25 seconds. However, below that you can see that the clip will end early if the motion stops.

As I scroll down, you can see other settings, Infrared Illuminator, video quality, if the camera is enabled, latest update, the Wi-Fi signal to the camera, and the camera to the sync module, which is located next to the wireless router. Let's go back a screen.

With this particular system, this top view is an image of what I'm looking at, not a live view. Since these run on battery, they are not always recording video, only on motion or if I tap the video camera icon over here on the left. When I do, it takes me to a live video stream of the camera. You can see that it's at night and I have a skeleton riding a bike next to my house.

### Summary 06:41-07:03

OK, that's it for this demo. In this demonstration, we talked about smart devices. We looked at few common smart home devices. First, we looked at the Amazon Echo, then we looked at a smart plug and how that is able to work with the Echo. We ended with a quick overview of a home security camera system.

## 9.9.3 Constraints and Security of Embedded Devices

### Embedded Device Security Constraints 00:00-00:55

Embedded systems are usually dedicated to performing a precise function. They can vary in size, complexity, and function and can range from tiny, portable devices like smart watches to large traffic controllers. Some have low complexity, like a single micro-controller chip that opens and closes a gate, and some have very high complexity, like the embedded systems in an automated aircraft.

Nowadays, devices are becoming more intelligent and capable than ever. Manufacturers are always competing to be the first to release the latest and greatest device. But in the process of beating their competitors to market, many end up neglecting some of the most important security issues. These circumstances make it so devices are often sent out unchecked and undertested, making them easy for hackers to exploit.

In this lesson, I'll go over some of the security constraints that affect modern embedded devices.

### Security Issues 00:55-01:33

Smart devices collect data for many reasons, such as improving efficiency, experience, and decision-making. Again, the problem is that some devices lack the most basic security and data-protection policies. Because you're dealing with sensitive information, you absolutely have to store and process data securely across your network. This means that you should redact sensitive data before you store it. An alternative is to use data separation to decouple personally identifiable information from data payloads. Data that isn't useful anymore should be disposed of in a safe manner. No measure is ever fail-proof, and every device needs regular patches to address attacks that uncover new flaws.

### Security Issues 01:33-02:31

Patching has its downsides as well, and many times a patch ends up causing just as many problems as it was intended to solve. First of all, the patch might break the device's functionality. Second, most manufacturers are more concerned with producing and releasing products faster than their competition than mitigating security risks. Third, manufacturers often stop releasing patches and support for devices once they start working on a different product. Fourth, many devices use unsupported legacy Linux kernels.

Ideally, each device should undergo proper testing before it's released to the market, and patches should happen on a regular basis. But, sometimes the cost to go through all the testing is more than manufacturers are willing to spend. Many times, they simply accept the risks, even though skipping these important steps is bad for customers and manufacturers. After all, it only takes one large-scale data breach for a company to lose sensitive information, the public's trust, and maybe their entire fortune.

### Authentication 02:31-03:17

For this reason, you should always implement secure authentication for users and apps. Authentication is an area that's often overlooked in embedded-technology development. The Mirai botnet was one of the biggest and most troublesome DDoS attacks in recent history. This attack was so successful because it found vulnerable IoT devices and used default usernames and passwords to log in and infect them.

Although almost all devices have to authenticate before they access a network, many allow easy-to-guess default passwords. The main problem is that there's no set regulation for smart devices that companies are legally forced to abide by. With this in mind, some ways to strengthen your own authentication practices are to use two-factor authentication, enforce strong passwords, and use certificates.

### Encryption 03:17-03:44

Even if you secure your devices with authentication, there's another vulnerability called lack of encryption. Data encryption and decryption is an ongoing process. Most network sensors aren't capable of supporting this process, which means that most data is transferred and received as cleartext. In addition, ports listening to the internet are many times left open continuously. Both factors make data extremely vulnerable to theft, breaches, and other malicious acts.

### Trust and Security 03:44-04:29

In order to try to standardize platforms and create trust in the embedded world, a group of experts got together in 2003 and created the Trusted Computing Group, or TCG. Together, they released a standard called Trusted Platform Module, or TPM. Although trust and security are often spoken of as one and the same, they're actually quite different.

Consider the fact that a secure system that can be bypassed without detection isn't trustworthy. At the same time, a trusted system with undiscovered vulnerabilities isn't secure.

To be trusted, a system must behave as expected and be able to detect that something is wrong. That's why TPM is so valuable to trusted computing. It provides essential services such as strong identity, secure storage, and integrity measurement.

### Summary 04:29-04:49

That's it for this video. As embedded devices grow and develop, they become more susceptible to exploitation from hackers and other bad actors. Understanding the present challenges in the world of embedded devices can help you protect your data and stand out in your technological career.

## 9.9.4 Communication of Embedded Systems

### Communication of Embedded Systems 00:00-00:28

Now that we have a better understanding of embedded systems, it's time to dive deeper into the technologies and protocols that allow them to communicate.

Embedded systems often require new technologies, and their biggest obstacle is the lack of capable support. For this reason, they currently use standard networking protocols. These protocols are divided into four categories: short-range, medium-range, long-range, and wired.

### Short-Range Protocols 00:28-03:11

There are several short-range protocols and technologies. Near-field communication, or NFC, and radio-frequency identification, or RFID, are two very simple, low-energy, and versatile protocols. RFID uses two-way radio transmitter receivers to identify and track object tags. NFC uses magnetic field induction to communicate between mobile and standard electronic devices.

Bluetooth Low Energy, also known as BLE or Bluetooth Smart, is a wireless personal area network. It supports low-power, long-use IoT technology. It's used in the healthcare, security, entertainment, and fitness sectors.

Light-Fidelity, or Li-Fi, is very similar to Wi-Fi. The two key differences are speed and mode of communication. Unlike Wi-Fi, Li-Fi is a visible light communications system. It uses light bulbs to transfer data at the high speed of 224 gigabits per second.

Quick Response, or QR, codes and barcodes are tags attached to products. They're machine-readable and contain information about the product. A QR code is two-dimensional, and you can scan it using a smartphone, while barcodes come in one-dimensional or two-dimensional code.

Thread, Zigbee, and Z-Wave are all radio protocols that create low-rate private area networks. Their advantage is that, although they're low-power, they offer high throughput. Thread uses an IPv6-based networking protocol. Zigbee is a short-range communication protocol based on the IEEE 203.15.4 standard. Z-Wave is a low-power, short-range communication protocol designed mostly for home IoT systems.

Wi-Fi is commonly implemented in wireless local area networking. The most common Wi-Fi standard is 802.11n with a maximum speed of 600 Megabits per second and a range of about 50 meters.

Wi-Fi Direct uses peer-to-peer communication without a set wireless access point. The devices in Wi-Fi Direct only start communicating after an access point device has been selected within the system.

You can also use hotspots to provide wireless network access.

Mobile hotspots let you connect a device to the internet through a portable wireless device such as a phone.

Hotspots form an on-the-spot Wi-Fi network, allowing you to connect a number of gadgets for simple, fast internet access. Hotspots often use third-, fourth-, and fifth-generation technology to provide this type of connection. 5G is the best of them because it achieves speeds twenty times faster that 4G; its peak speed is 20 gigabytes per second. It uses LTE for wireless connections and includes lower frequencies than previous generations, down to 600 Megahertz.

### Medium-Range Protocols 03:11-03:36

There are two main protocols in the medium-range category, HaLow and LTE-Advanced. HaLow is a branch of Wi-Fi with extended range. It's most useful in rural areas because it uses low data rates, so it reduces power and cost for transmission. LTE-Advanced is a mobile communication. It makes standard LTE better because it has a greater capacity for data rate, extended range, efficiency, and performance.

### Long-Range Protocols 03:36-04:39

Long-range wireless communication offers a few different protocols and technologies. The first one we'll talk about is LPWAN. LPWAN stands for low-power wide-area networking. It's a wireless telecommunication network. There are three protocols associated with LPWAN: LoRaWAN, Sigfox, and Neul.

LoRaWAN stands for long-range wide-area network. It's used with mobile, industrial machine-to-machine, and secure two-way communication for IoT devices, smart cities, and healthcare. Sigfox is good for devices with short battery life that need to transfer low-level data. Neul uses a small part of the TV white space spectrum and delivers high-quality, high-power, high-coverage networks at a low cost. Next, there's Very Small Aperture Terminal, or VSAT. VSAT uses small dish antennas to transfer broadband and narrowband data.

And finally, there's cellular. This communication protocol can send and receive high-quality data over very long distances. However, it's very expensive and consumes a lot of power.

### Wired Communication 04:39-05:41

Next we're going to talk about wired communication. There are three main protocols in this category: Ethernet; Multimedia over Coax Alliance, or MoCA; and Power-line Communication, or PLC.

Ethernet is used in LANs. The speed, signaling, media access methods, and cable lengths are defined in the various Ethernet standards published by the IEEE 802.3 committee. There are many Ethernet specifications, but they all use a common naming standard. The word BASE is in the middle. This indicates that the standard uses baseband signaling, not broadband signaling. Baseband updates may improve or diminish battery performance, network signal strength, and roaming capability.

Then we have MoCA. As its name suggests, MoCA uses coaxial cables to provide high-definition videos of a home and other content related to it.

PLC uses electrical wires to transmit power and data from one point to another. PLC is used in different sectors like automation, industrial, and broadband over power lines, or BLP.

### SIM Cards 05:41-06:10

One last form of embedded device communication worth mentioning isn't a protocol; it's a card many devices carry inside them called a Subscriber Identity Module card, or SIM card. It encrypts data transmission and stores information about the owner of the device the SIM card is in for identification and authentication. It also stores the International Mobile Subscriber Identity, or IMSI. This is a unique identifier that defines a subscriber in the wireless world, including their country and mobile network.

### Summary 06:10-06:33

That's it for this lesson. Today, we discussed the communication of embedded systems. We talked about short-range, medium-range, and long-range protocols. We also covered wired communication and SIM cards. Embedded devices are complex. Learning about their protocols, technologies, and communication models will prepare you to incorporate and safeguard them.

## 9.9.5 Embedded and Specialized Systems Facts

More and more devices are becoming connected to the internet through embedded technology that allows the device to send and receive information.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Types of embedded devices
- Security risks

### Types of Embedded Devices

The following table describes some of the most common embedded devices:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Device Type
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Appliances</td>
        <td>
        Many appliances contain integrated technology that allows internet
        communication. For example, smart laundry appliances can send
        notifications when a load is complete or when laundry detergent
        needs to be refilled. Other common smart home appliances include:
        <ul>
            <li>Refrigerators</li>
            <li>Dishwashers</li>
            <li>Microwaves</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Environment controls</td>
        <td>
        Many homes and businesses use environmental control devices that can
        send real-time information and can be controlled via the internet.
        These devices can be as basic as controlling a home's HVAC system
        (such as a Nest thermostat) or as complex as controlling the
        humidity, temperature, and other environmental factors in a data
        center.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Building/facility automation</td>
        <td>
        Some facilities use a network of integrated devices that control
        various aspects, creating what is known as facility automation. Some
        of the devices that are integrated with facility automation include:
        <ul>
            <li>Lighting controls</li>
            <li>Security systems</li>
            <li>Door locks</li>
            <li>Sprinkler systems</li>
            <li>Garage doors</li>
            <li>Smart meters</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Wearable devices</td>
        <td>
        In recent years, companies have started producing wearable devices
        that can connect to the internet for a variety of purposes. These
        devices include:
        <ul>
            <li>Watches</li>
            <li>Headphones</li>
            <li>Fitness trackers</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Automobiles</td>
        <td>
        Modern cars use integrated technologies and in-vehicle systems that
        can perform various tasks, such as:
        <ul>
            <li>Starting the car remotely using a smart phone</li>
            <li>Warning a driver about nearby cars</li>
            <li>Applying the brakes automatically to avoid collision</li>
            <li>Performing parallel parking autonomously</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Industrial equipment</td>
        <td>
        Some industrial equipment also fits into the category of a smart
        device. Supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) devices are
        special computer systems that gather, analyze, and manage automated
        factory equipment.
        <p>
            For example, a SCADA system could be used to monitor factory pipes
            and automatically open valves if pressure in the pipe system
            reaches a specific threshold. SCADA is a subset of Industrial
            Control Systems (ICS), which refers to all types of industrial
            automation.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Mainframe computer</td>
        <td>
        A lesser known category of embedded devices are mainframe computers.
        A mainframe computer is a large, powerful computer that is capable
        of processing extremely large amounts of data. Mainframe computers
        typically run proprietary operating systems.
        <p>
            Because these operating systems are rarely updated, they are
            considered a static environment. In addition, mainframe computers
            often contain large amounts of sensitive data, making them an
            attractive target for hackers.
        </p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Real-time operating system (RTOS)</td>
        <td>
        A RTOS is an operating system that serves real-time applications
        without buffer delays. They are generally used in systems that
        require a response within a strict time constraint. Because RTOS are
        often used as critical components of an application, a successful
        attack on the RTOS can harm an entire system, including physical
        machinery.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>System on a chip (SoC)</td>
        <td>
        A SoC is an integrated circuit that includes all components of a
        typical computer system, including digital, analog, mixed-signal,
        and radio frequency functions. The Raspberry Pi is a common device
        that uses a SoC. Because of their relatively low cost, SoCs are
        often used by hobbyists.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Multi-function display (MFD)</td>
        <td>
        An MFD is a screen surrounded by configurable buttons that can be
        used to display information in a variety of ways. MFDs are often
        used on airplanes, helicopters, and ships.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Medical devices</td>
        <td>
        Much of today's medical technology for daily monitoring and
        maintenance uses embedded systems. Instead of having to visit a
        physician every day, wearable devices can be used to collect
        information on heart rate, glucose levels, weight, blood pressure,
        and other parameters. This information can then be sent to a doctor
        automatically or used for self-monitoring.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV)</td>
        <td>
        UAVs are used for military campaigns, search and rescue, weather
        monitoring, and recreation. UAVs use embedded computers for
        collecting and transmitting data and for receiving commands.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Digital cameras</td>
        <td>
        Most modern digital cameras use embedded systems for processing
        captured images, storing images, and uploading images to a PC or
        other storage device.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Media gateways</td>
        <td>
        A media gateway is a translation device that converts media streams
        for use by different telecommunication technologies.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Wireless keyboards and mice</td>
        <td>
        Wireless keyboards and mice use Bluetooth or other proprietary radio
        frequency connections.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Displays</td>
        <td>
        In the past, display devices had a single use as a monitor for a
        computer. Today's monitors and other display devices are
        increasingly embedded with smart features and have wireless
        connections.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Wi-Fi-enabled microSD cards</td>
        <td>
        Wi-Fi-enabled MicroSD cards can wirelessly transfer data to and from
        other devices. Many of them connect directly to the internet.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Multifunction printers (MFPs)</td>
        <td>
        Multifunction printers can connect to wireless networks and to the
        internet for additional functionality.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>External storage devices</td>
        <td>
        External storage devices such as USB flash drives, HDDs, and SSDs
        can connect to traditional computing equipment, as well as to many
        smart devices.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Arduino</td>
        <td>
        Arduino is an open-source hardware and software company. They design
        and manufacture single-board microcontrollers as well as kits to
        build digital devices.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)</td>
        <td>
        A Field Programmable Gate Array is an integrated circuit
        manufactured and then later configured by the customer. The
        configuration happens through a hardware description language (HDL),
        similar to application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Voice over IP (VoIP)</td>
        <td>
        Voice over IP is a protocol optimized for the transmission of voice
        data (telephone calls) through a packet-switched IP network. VoIP
        routes phone calls through an IP network, including the internet.
        VoIP solutions can integrate with the public switched telephone
        network (PSTN) to allow VoIP customers to make and receive external
        calls.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Security Risks

As with any networked system, there are security risks associated with smart devices. Not only do you have little or no control over the smart technology within static environments, smart device vendors can be slow to take steps to protect their products against security threats. They tend to respond only after an exploit has occurred instead of proactively updating systems. This is why smart devices are attractive to hackers. However, there are some steps you can take to secure a network from these devices and reduce the damage that a compromised device can cause.

<ul>
   <li>
    Some static devices (such as home routers, game consoles, and SCADA devices) require manual firmware updates.
      With these devices, it is important to keep the firmware updated.
   </li>
   <li>
    For devices that cannot be manually updated, the best approach is to minimize the amount of damage a compromised device
      can cause. This is done by segmenting the network using VLANs or encrypting all network communications.
   </li>
</ul>
