---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 9.7 Mobile Device Management
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What are four methods of mobile device management (MDM)?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the benefits of implementing mobile application management (MAM)?
    </li>
    <li>
     What do Windows Information Protection (WIP) policies provide?
    </li>
    <li>
     How does Intune help you to secure data?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Enroll devices and perform a remote wipe.
    </li>
    <li>
     Enroll non-Windows devices.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Term</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Definition</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Windows Information Protection</td>
        <td>
        A technology that helps protect against data leakage on
        company-owned and personal devices without disrupting the user
        experience.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Network fencing</td>
        <td>
        Location compliance, known as network fencing, allows you to keep
        devices outside your corporate network from accessing network
        resources.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Mobile device management</td>
        <td>
        The administration of mobile devices. MDM software generally allows
        for tracking devices; pushing apps and updates; managing security
        settings; and remotely wiping the device.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Mobile application management</td>
        <td>
        The administration of applications on a mobile device. MAM software
        allows a system administrator to remotely install or remove
        organizational apps and to disable certain functions within the
        apps.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Enterprise mobility management (EMM)</td>
        <td>
        A combination of MDM and MAM solutions in one package. EMM allows a
        system administrator to remotely manage hardware and applications on
        a mobile device.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Unified endpoint management (UEM)</td>
        <td>
        An all-in-one device management solution. UEM allows a system
        administrator to manage local and mobile devices, including Internet
        of Things devices.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>
        Bring your own device
        <br />
        (BYOD)
        </td>
        <td>
        The practice of having employees use their own personal mobile
        devices for business related tasks.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Exam</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Objective</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>TestOut Security Pro</td>
        <td>
        3.0 Host and Application Defense
        <blockquote>3.2 Implement Application Defenses</blockquote>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CompTIA Security+ SY0-601</td>
        <td>
        3.5 Given a scenario, implement secure mobile solutions.
        <ul>
            <li>
            Mobile device management (MDM)
            <ul>
                <li>Application management</li>
                <li>Content management</li>
                <li>Remote wipe</li>
                <li>Geofencing</li>
                <li>Geolocation</li>
                <li>Screen locks</li>
                <li>Push notifications</li>
                <li>Passwords and pins</li>
                <li>Biometrics</li>
                <li>Context-aware authentication</li>
                <li>Containerization</li>
                <li>Storage segmentation</li>
                <li>Full device encryption</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
            Mobile devices
            <ul>
                <li>MDM/Unified endpoint management (UEM)</li>
                <li>Mobile application management (MAM)</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## 9.7.1 Mobile Device Management

### Mobile Device Management 00:00-01:17

Today, mobile devices are used in more workplaces than ever before. They create all kinds of new possibilities—and all kinds of new problems. So managing mobile devices is a major focus for most organizations.

Most employees bring a personal mobile device to work, usually a cell phone, tablet, or laptop. When these personal electronics are used for business activity, they're called BYOD devices, which stands for bring your own device.

Before mobile devices were common, every device that connected to a network was stationary, such as a desktop or printer, so you could add it to a domain and manage it with Group Policy settings.

But it's not that simple anymore. Organizations need to manage mobile devices and enforce policies to secure their data. If an employee copies sensitive data to a device, the organization needs to be sure that the data will be kept safe outside the organizational network. This is where Mobile Device Management policies come in.

We're going to cover the four main types of mobile device management: Mobile Device Management, Mobile Application Management, Enterprise Mobility Management, and Unified Endpoint Management.

### Mobile Device Management 01:17-01:58

Let's start with Mobile Device Management, or MDM. MDM allows IT administrators to remotely manage a mobile device, even if it's a personally owned device used for work.

MDM lets you track the device, push apps and updates, manage security, and even remotely wipe the device.

This solution works well for company-owned devices, but the release of the iPhone in 2007 caused a huge increase in the number personal devices brought to work and used for work-related purposes, such as email.

Employees didn't want their employers to have too much control over their personal devices. This is when Mobile Application Management solutions were created.

### Mobile Application Management 01:58-02:42

Mobile Application Management, or MAM, solutions focus on managing the applications on a mobile device, not the device itself.

Applications that the organization has developed or any application that the organization provides licenses for falls under MAM policies.

The organization can put limitations on these apps, such as disabling copy and paste functions. IT administration can uninstall the app and the data related to it in case the device is lost or stolen.

As more devices were release and their use spread, MDM and MAM solutions evolved to keep up with changing demands and eventually merged into a solution called Enterprise Mobility Management.

### Enterprise Mobility Management 02:42-03:12

One of the main drawbacks of MDM and MAM solutions is that there are so many different types of devices and operating systems. Each device type requires separate management tools and systems.

Enterprise Mobility Management, or EMM, solutions solve this problem. EMM is a combination of MDM and MAM methods into one package solution. EMM is hardware-agnostic and can remotely manage a mobile device's hardware and applications.

### Intune 03:12-03:53

One of the more popular solutions for Enterprise Mobility Management is Microsoft's Intune.

Intune is a part of the Microsoft Enterprise Mobility and Security Suite that's accessed through an organization's Azure portal. Intune allows IT administrators to manage mobile devices and apps, control access to data, and ensure that devices comply with security policies.

Microsoft Intune is included with any Enterprise agreement of at least 500 users, and it supports all mobile device types. I probably don't have to tell you that integrating device security with Azure's Active Directory make managing mobile devices much, much simpler.

### Unified Endpoint Management 03:53-04:23

Of course, IT administrators need to worry about managing everything else that's on their network, too: desktop computers, printers, Internet of Things devices, and wearables. This need was met by the creation of another solution called Unified Endpoint Management, or UEM.

UEM tools provide a single point of management for all network devices. Essentially, they are a marriage of traditional device management and Enterprise Mobile Device Management solutions.

### Summary 04:23-04:46

All right, that's all for this video. In this lesson, we looked at mobile device management solutions, including Mobile Device Management, Mobile Application Management, Enterprise Mobility Management, and Unified Endpoint Management. We also talked about Microsoft's EMM solution, Intune.

## 9.7.2 Mobile Device Management Facts

The use of mobile devices in the workplace has increased rapidly over the past few years. The management of these devices has become a big concern for system administrators.

Many organizations allow users to bring their own devices and use them for work-related purposes. This practice, known as bring your own device (BYOD) requires the organization to develop a set of policies to manage these devices, which allow the organization to ensure the mobile devices are secured and can be managed remotely. There are four main types of mobile device management solutions.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Mobile device management (MDM).
   </li>
   <li>
    Mobile application management (MAM).
   </li>
   <li>
    Enterprise mobility management (EMM).
   </li>
   <li>
    Unified endpoint management (UEM).
   </li>
  </ul>

### Mobile Device Management

Mobile device management solutions allows IT administrators to remotely manage a mobile device even if it’s a personally owned device being used for work-related purposes. MDM focuses on managing the device itself but not the applications or software.

Mobile device management provides the ability to:

<ul>
   <li>
    Track the device.
   </li>
   <li>
    Push apps and updates (this is also known as provisioning the device).
   </li>
   <li>
    Manage security settings, such as lock screens, passwords, etc.
   </li>
   <li>
    Remotely wipe the device in case it is lost or stolen.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Mobile Application Management

Mobile application management solutions focus on managing the applications on a mobile device but not the device itself. Licensed applications or custom-designed apps fall under MAM policies.

Mobile application management provides the ability to:

<ul>
   <li>
    Install and uninstall apps remotely.
   </li>
   <li>
    Update apps as needed.
   </li>
   <li>
    Limit functionality in an app as needed.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Enterprise Mobility Management

Enterprise mobility management is the combination of MDM and MAM solutions in one package. These policies allow a system administrator to remotely manage a mobile device's hardware and applications.

As different brands and manufacturers of mobile devices came on the market, the ability to manage them all became more difficult. Enterprise mobility management solutions address this problem by being able to manage multiple types of devices in a single package.

Microsoft's Intune is one of the most popular EMM solutions. Intune is included with any Windows Enterprise agreement of at least 500 users and supports all types of devices. Intune is integrated into the organization's Azure Active Directory, which simplifies device management even more. Intune allows the system administrator to:

<ul>
   <li>
    Manage mobile devices
   </li>
   <li>
    Manage mobile apps
   </li>
   <li>
    Control data access
   </li>
   <li>
    Comply with security policies
   </li>
  </ul>

### Unified Endpoint Management

The need to manage so many different devices has become an issue for organizations. Devices such as printers, workstations, servers, and others are managed in Active Directory. However, mobile devices need to be managed separately. A recent solution to this is unified endpoint management. UEM is the next step in device management. These solutions provide a single point for all types of devices, including:

<ul>
   <li>
    Workstations
   </li>
   <li>
    Printers
   </li>
   <li>
    Mobile devices
   </li>
   <li>
    IoT devices
   </li>
   <li>
    Wearable devices
   </li>
  </ul>

UEM is the joining together of traditional device management and enterprise mobility management solutions.

## 9.7.3 Enroll Devices and Perform a Remote Wipe

### Enrolling Devices with Microsoft Intune 00:00-00:34

In this demonstration, we're going to take a look at how to enroll devices in Microsoft Intune. I'm going to demonstrate this using automatic enrollment through Azure Active Directory. This is a very common scenario. Understand that with Microsoft Intune, there are many different devices that we can enroll. We can enroll our macOS devices, Android devices, and iOS devices. I wouldn't be surprised if, very soon, we'll see the iPad OS devices available for enrollment inside of Intune.

### Device Enrollment Types 00:34-00:55

There's assistance for all your enrollment needs. If you go into Microsoft Intune and you go to Device Enrollment, you note all the different types of devices you can enroll. This Quick Start, right here, is an excellent guide to walk us through the enrollment steps. Notice that we can prepare an Apple MDM push certificate to help automate Apple device enrollment.

### Windows Enrollment Options 00:55-01:17

If we go to Windows enrollment here, we see the many options that exist for enrolling Windows devices. We're going to take advantage of the automatic enrollment capability. Note that, inside of here, we say that we want to take all of our users and enroll them into Mobile Device Management with Intune automatically. I'm going to go ahead and make that change and save it.

### Intune License Verification 01:17-01:39

Now we want to go into Azure Active Directory and make sure that we have our Microsoft Intune licensed and in place under the MDM area. If we go into the Application settings, we see that it's picked up the change that we made. That was for all users to be able to automatically enroll their devices. And now we're set up.

### Additional Enrollment Settings 01:39-02:04

There are additional things we could do under the Device Enrollment area. We can set up special terms and conditions or other restrictions. It's also a good idea to put in place device categories so that devices are automatically placed in an appropriate device category as they're enrolled. We have corporate device identifiers for our corporate devices. We could even add user accounts that are going to be permitted to bulk enroll massive numbers of devices.

### Create a User Account 02:04-03:21

But let's continue with our demonstration here. Now that we've got the Azure and Intune environments set, let's go ahead and automatically enroll a Windows 10 device. We begin this process inside of Azure AD. I'm going to create a new user account that's going to be inside of Azure Active Directory. Then they're automatically enrolled in Intune based on our settings. My username here will be ‘John', and my practice domain will be ‘certjim.com'. The full name is ‘John Smith', first name ‘John', last name ‘Smith'. We can go ahead and create a password for this user. I'll do the super-secure password of ‘password123', and then we could add this user to groups. We could block signing in. We could give the specific usage location for this user. Often, that's something that you don't want to skip since, many times, the licensing is region-specific. It's tempting to just skip this when you're in the lab environment, but I would always recommend that you set the location information.

So, there we go. We've created this user account. This is going to be the john@certjim account that we‘re going to use to automatically join the Windows device to Azure AD and Intune.

### Auto-Enroll Device 03:21-04:32

Here we are on the workstation of that user, and we need to add the Azure Active Directory information. We're going to go into Settings and under the accounts we use the access work or school options. This is where we can make this device automatically added both to Azure and Intune. We simply choose Connect here. We're asked for an email address, but this is going to default to a Microsoft account. Notice we're going to join this device to Azure Active Directory, and it gives us this page, which is exactly where we can enter the john@certjim.com information. We choose Next, and we're prompted for the password. That's the following password. And then we choose Sign In.

Notice that this is the first time they're signing in. This is a good sign that we got to this page. It means that we've communicated with Azure properly. I'll type in the current password one more time, and then we put in a new password for this user account. Again, this is a very good sign. It means that things are working correctly. I'm going to choose Sign in, and we'll see if we're successful in joining Azure Active Directory and Intune.

### Troubleshooting Errors 04:32-05:21

Oh, look--now we have something to troubleshoot. It says, "It looks like we can't connect to the URL for your organization's MDM terms of use." It also gives us an error code of "invalid client" and "failed to authenticate user." Researching that error with just a simple Google search pointed me in the right direction--licensing is probably the issue. We'll go into the Users area of Microsoft Azure, and let's select the user account that we've been working with. If I go to Licensing, it says, "No licensing assignments found," and that's certainly going to give us problems. So we're going to go ahead and license this user to do all of the enterprise mobility and security E3 features. Note that this includes Microsoft Intune.

### Connect Device 05:21-05:59

So, we're back out at the workstation, and we're ready to get this done. We're going to choose to connect, input our credentials, and we're prompted for the password. That's great. And we aren't meeting with an error. We can see that our device is being registered with the company, and the policy is being applied. Now we're asked to give more information, and this is a security verification. So this is great. I'm going to have them send me a code by text message, and I'll enter in my phone number information out of the demonstration. I'll be right back to show you the next step.

### Verification 05:59-06:20

All right. That verification passed without a problem, and now we need to create a PIN. I already created a PIN for the login on this system. It indicates that we're all set. We can see that the work or school account is inside here. Now we're being managed by Intune as part of an automatic enrollment through Azure Active Directory.

### Company Portal Application 06:20-06:42

One of the things that we can do is grab the company portal applications. So, if you go to the Windows Store and search for the company, you should see the company portal app. You can install this. This is another great way to interact with resources that are assigned out through Intune. But we certainly wouldn't want to end this configuration without doing some verification inside of Intune.

### Verify Intune Device Enrollment 06:42-07:26

So what I'm going to do is go to Intune inside of Azure, and we're going to go into the main page here, into devices. Note that there's a Windows device that's appearing here. We can click on it, and we can see the system that we just enrolled. This is great. We can see that it was enrolled by the user john@certjim.com. And if we go into this device, we can begin to manage it. From here, we can sync it or restart it. We could do the security actions like quick scans and updating the security information on the device. We could even wipe the device if things got bad from a security perspective. So, clearly, we can see that we've automatically enrolled in Intune.

### Summary 07:26-07:41

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we walked through the settings required for the Windows enrollment. We did some troubleshooting along the way, and we updated licensing.

## 9.7.4 Enrolling non-Windows Devices

### Non-Windows Device Enrollment 00:00-00:38

In this demonstration, we'll enroll non-Windows devices in Microsoft Intune. Remember, Intune allows many different devices to be enrolled. This allows many popular mobile device operating systems to be managed using Intune.

For example, if we go into Device enrollment, you'll notice that there's a blade for Apple enrollment. This would include both iOS as well as Mac OS devices. Soon, the iPad OS will be supported as well. There's Android enrollment. This is for both enterprise scale Android devices, as well as personal devices. And of course, there's Windows enrollment.

### Android Enrollment 00:38-01:23

You should take some time exploring these different options inside of Microsoft Azure. For example, if we go into the Android enrollment, we'll see that there's the ability to enroll corporate, as well as personal devices.

We do this by setting an Android device administrator inside of Intune. Once we do this, these options become available. Notice we also can link a Google Play Store account in order to help enroll devices inside of Intune.

When we say that you should explore these options, it's just a matter of opening them, clicking inside them, and seeing the steps that you'll need to go through. For instance, on managing devices through the Managed Google Play Android enrollment process, we first check a box that we agree to the Terms and Conditions. Then, a button displays that will allow us to launch Google and connect the account by signing in.

### Apple Enrollment 01:23-01:55

You should note that the Android enrollment workflow is a common workflow regardless of the type of device that we're working with. For example, on the Apple enrollment blade, notice how we must first configure an Apple MDM Push certificate. Once we do that, we can do other types of Apple enrollments.

This might include the Apple Configurator, which is one of the bulk enrollment methods available to us, or the enrollment program tokens. This Is often seen with the Apple School Manager or the Device Enrollment Program (DEP) from Apple.

### Device Monitoring 01:55-02:13

Notice that it is easy to monitor the enrollment of non-Windows devices. This is especially helpful if you experience failure when configuring the devices. There is a blade set up called Enrollment failures. You can limit this to certain users, or you can choose to see all failures that have occurred for any users in our infrastructure.

### Summary 02:13-02:27

That's it for this demo. In this demonstration, we looked at how we would go step-by-step through enrolling non-Windows devices inside Intune and Microsoft's Azure.

## 9.7.5 Mobile Application Management

### Intune Mobile Application Management 00:00-00:52

All organizations have mobile apps that they like to use. Due to the different types of device platforms—as well at data security and ownership—these apps can be a challenge to manage.

Mobile Application Management, or MAM, allows the organization to overcome these issues. Intune is Microsoft's MAM solution. MAM in Intune refers to the assortment of management features that lets the system administrator publish, push, configure, secure, monitor, and update mobile apps.

Each app in Intune goes through a life cycle. This cycle is Add, Deploy, Configure, Protect, and Retire. Intune provides a full range of tools to help you manage apps during the life cycle.

Intune allows the organization to develop its own app catalog, create its own self-service portal, and remotely manage apps.

### Creating an App Catalog 00:52-01:57

There are a lot of apps available to perform different tasks. But it's important that you only use approved apps that your organization has licenses for and has tested to work with their systems.

An app catalog allows the organization to define which apps a user can and can't use. To put together the catalog, the system administrator—often shortened to system admin—adds the apps to Intune. Once added, security policies are applied to the apps themselves. But security isn't ensured if you use unapproved apps to access organizational data and resources.

When adding apps to the catalog, the system admin can assign them to specific users or groups. For example, tech support usually doesn't need to use the finance app that the accounting department uses. So that app wouldn't show up in their catalog.

One cool feature that was added to Intune is the ability to blacklist an app. These are apps that absolutely shouldn't be installed on a device that's accessing organizational resources. If the user has one of these apps installed, they'll receive an error message that they're unable to access company resources.

### Self-Service Portal 01:57-02:44

In a large organization, it's just not feasible for the network administrator—often shortened to network admin—to manually push apps out to all the different groups of devices. But a company can create a self-service portal using Intune that makes the distribution of apps easier for everyone.

Users can access the portal by using a web link. The most efficient way, though, is to have them install the Intune company portal app. When the user installs the app, they log in using their work credentials. The app then allows the user to access their company's portal.

When an organization adds an app to Intune, the system admin decides if it's mandatory to install or not. Intune pushes out mandatory app installs to devices within 24 hours.

Using the portal makes managing apps much easier for the system admins.

### Remotely Manage Apps 02:44-03:35

So, there's a lot that goes into managing the apps for an organization. That's why Intune is so valuable—for its ease and simplicity. With users spread all over the world, knowing that you can remotely manage app installs and usage is a great benefit.

All app types—except for the line-of-business apps—automatically update as needed. Remember that line-of-business apps are those that someone created internally. So, those updates are pushed out manually through the company portal. Once you load updates to Intune, they should update themselves within 24 hours.

When an employee leaves the organization, the system admin needs to ensure that he or she takes away all access to company resources and removes any company data on the user's devices. Intune allows the admin to remotely remove apps and clear all data from the device without affecting the device itself.

### Summary 03:35-04:03

That's it for now. In this lesson, we covered the basics of Mobile Application Management and how you can use Intune to facilitate this. We looked at how you can create a catalog of the apps that users need. Then we covered what a self-service portal is and how you can use it to make the management of apps easier. Finally, we reviewed how you can use Intune to remotely manage apps and even remove apps from user's devices.

## 9.7.6 Mobile Application Management Facts

Mobile application management (MAM) refers to the assortment of management features that lets a system administrator publish, push, configure, secure, monitor, and update mobile apps. The goal is to ensure users have the applications they need at all times while protecting the organization's data within the apps. This can be very challenging due to the wide variety of device platforms and application types. Intune is Microsoft's MAM solution in the Azure cloud.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Mobile application management
   </li>
   <li>
    Intune application life cycle
   </li>
   <li>
    App deployment and update methods
   </li>
  </ul>

### Mobile Application Management

Microsoft app protection policies are rules that make sure the company's data is secure within an application. The user cannot move data or perform any action that is prohibited in a policy. Intune mobile device management (MDM) provides the app protection policies that enable MAM to protect devices and data. MAM also provides protection through MAM without enrollment (MAM-WE) in Intune MDM. The following table describes the two possible configurations.

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Configuration Option
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Intune MDM + MAM</td>
        <td>
        Manage apps using MAM and app protection policies on devices
        enrolled in Intune MDM. In an MDM + MAM implementation,
        administrators use the Intune console in the Azure portal.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>MAM-WE</td>
        <td>
        Manage apps using MAM and app protection policies but with devices
        enrolled with third-party enterprise mobility management (EMM)
        providers. Sensitive data can be managed on any device, including
        personal devices.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

> App protection can require a PIN to launch an application.

### Intune Application Life Cycle

Each app in Intune goes through a life cycle. Intune provides a full range of tools to help manage apps during each phase. The following table describes these phases.

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Phase</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Add</td>
        <td>
        Add the apps you would like to manage and assign them in Intune. You
        can add the following app types:
        <ul>
            <li>Apps from the Windows Store</li>
            <li>Apps that are line-of-business apps written in house</li>
            <li>Apps on the web</li>
            <li>Built-in apps</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Deploy</td>
        <td>
        Assign the app to users and/or devices you manage and monitor them
        on the Azure portal.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Configure</td>
        <td>Update deployed apps with new versions using Intune.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Protect</td>
        <td>
        Protect company data in deployed apps with conditional access to
        email and other corporate resources. Conditional access is based on
        the criteria you set in the app protection policies that lock down
        actions the users can perform on devices. Examples of locked-down
        actions include copying data and preventing app installation on
        rooted devices.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Retire</td>
        <td>
        Remove apps that have reached end of life or become outdated and are
        no longer used.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### App Deployment and Update Methods

The following table describes the three methods available to work with applications throughout their life cycle.

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Method</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>App catalog</td>
        <td>
        An app catalog allows the organization to define the apps that a
        user can and cannot use. Apps can be assigned to specific users and
        devices via groups to facilitate management. The catalog is
        configured to make available to specific users and groups only the
        apps that they have rights to access. An app can also be blacklisted
        so no user can use it to access company resources.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Self-service portal</td>
        <td>
        In a large organization, it is not feasible for the network
        administrator to manually push apps out to all users and groups for
        all devices. Therefore, a company can create a self-service portal
        using Intune that makes the distribution of apps easier for
        everyone.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Remote management</td>
        <td>
        All app types, except for the line-of-business apps, automatically
        update as needed. Updates can be uploaded into Intune where they can
        be pushed out to users and updated within 24 hours. Administrators
        can push out updates for line-of-business apps through the company
        portal. When an employee leaves the organization, Intune allows the
        administrator to remotely remove apps and clear all data from the
        device without affecting the device itself.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
