---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 11.4 Security Assessment Techniques
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What are the three steps in the threat hunting process?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the main difference between a threat feed and a threat advisory?
    </li>
    <li>
     What will a non-credentialed vulnerability scan show?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the three metrics used by a Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) calculator?
    </li>
    <li>
     When is an alert triggered in a security information and event management (SIEM) system?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which component of a Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response (SOAR) system is responsible for gathering  data and information from across the network?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Scan for Windows vulnerabilities.
    </li>
    <li>
     Scan for Linux vulnerabilities.
    </li>
    <li>
     Scan for domain controller vulnerabilities.
    </li>
    <li>
     Scan for security appliance vulnerabilities.
    </li>
    <li>
     Scan for Web Application Protection (WAP) vulnerabilities.
    </li>
</ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Term</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Definition</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Threat hunting</td>
        <td>
        The human-based, methodical search and monitoring of the network,
        systems, and software in order to detect any malicious or suspicious
        activity that has evaded the automated tools.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Threat feed</td>
        <td>
        A service that tracks cyber threats across the world and provides
        real-time updates with IP addresses, URLs, and other relevant
        information regarding the threats.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Advisories and bulletins</td>
        <td>
        Advisories and bulletins provide detailed updates on cyber threats.
        They are usually updated weekly.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Intelligence fusion</td>
        <td>
        The sharing of information between multiple government agencies and
        private security firms.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Vulnerability scan</td>
        <td>
        The process of capturing and analyzing packets to identify any
        security weaknesses in a network, computer system, local
        applications, and even web applications.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>False positive</td>
        <td>
        Scan results that indicated a vulnerability, but there is none.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>False negative</td>
        <td>
        Scan results that indicate no vulnerability when a vulnerability
        exists.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Common Vulnerability Scoring System</td>
        <td>A system that ranks vulnerabilities based on severity.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)</td>
        <td>
        A list of standardized identifiers for known software
        vulnerabilities and exposures.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Security information and event management</td>
        <td>
        Special tools that gather network information and aggregate it into
        a central place. SIEM systems can actively read the network
        information and determine if there is a threat.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Security Orchestration, Automation and Response</td>
        <td>
        A solution stack of compatible software programs that collect data
        about security threats from multiple sources and respond to
        low-level security events without human assistance.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      TestOut Security Pro
     </td>
     <td>
      5.0 Audit and Security Assessment
      <p>
       5.2 Assessment Techniques
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
     </td>
     <td>
      1.7. Summarize the techniques used in security assessments.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Threat hunting
        <ul>
         <li>
          Intelligence fusion
         </li>
         <li>
          Threat feeds
         </li>
         <li>
          Advisories and bulletins
         </li>
         <li>
          Maneuver
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Vulnerability scans
        <ul>
         <li>
          False positives
         </li>
         <li>
          False negatives
         </li>
         <li>
          Log reviews
         </li>
         <li>
          Credentialed vs. non-credentialed
         </li>
         <li>
          Intrusive vs. non-intrusive
         </li>
         <li>
          Application
         </li>
         <li>
          Web application
         </li>
         <li>
          Network
         </li>
         <li>
          Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE)/Common
         </li>
         <li>
          Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS)
         </li>
         <li>
          Configuration review
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Syslog/Security information and event management (SIEM)
        <ul>
         <li>
          Review reports
         </li>
         <li>
          Packet capture
         </li>
         <li>
          Data inputs
         </li>
         <li>
          User behavior analysis
         </li>
         <li>
          Sentiment analysis
         </li>
         <li>
          Security monitoring
         </li>
         <li>
          Log aggregation
         </li>
         <li>
          Log collectors
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Security orchestration, automation, response (SOAR)
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs.
       </p><ul>
        <li>
         Sensors
        </li>
        <li>
         Collectors
        </li>
       </ul>
      <p></p>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

## 11.4.1 Vulnerability Assessment

### Vulnerability Assessments 00:00-00:21

To defend our network against vulnerabilities, we need to know which vulnerabilities our network might be susceptible to. Network defenders need to perform vulnerability assessments regularly to discover potential issues. Two common assessment methods are threat hunting and vulnerability scans.

### Threat Hunting 00:21-01:01

Far too often, network defenders are reactive rather than proactive. Network administrators set up their automated defenses and hope they catch malicious activity. Unfortunately, these automated systems don't catch everything. So to be fully prepared, network defenders should be proactive and implement threat hunting.

Threat hunting is the human-based, methodical search of a network, system, or software in order to detect suspicious activity that might've evaded the automated tools.

The first step in threat hunting is for you to understand the different types of threats that are out there. Thankfully, there are many tools available. They include threat feeds, advisories and bulletins, and intelligence fusion.

### Threat Feeds 01:01-01:18

Threat feeds provide real-time updates on cyber threats across the world. These feeds can provide information such as suspicious domains, known malware, known malicious IP addresses, and more. Security defenders can use this information to stay on top of the latest threats that might impact them.

### Advisories and Bulletins 01:18-01:41

Advisories and bulletins are updates on recent threats that are usually posted weekly. These advisories give a more detailed look than threat feeds do. One of the more popular bulletins is the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency's, or CISA's, weekly bulletin that provides a summary of new vulnerabilities that are reported by the National Institute of Standards and Technology and the National Vulnerability Database.

### Intelligence Fusion 01:41-02:18

Threat feeds and bulletins both rely on information being shared between different government agencies, like the DHS, FBI, and private security firms. This sharing of information is known as intelligence fusion. One example of this in action is state-to-state fusion centers. These centers gather local threat information and share it with other fusion centers in other states.

Staying updated with the latest threats allows us to maneuver ourselves to defend against them. This includes implementing proper safeguards to prevent attacks we might be vulnerable to. Once we understand potential threats, we should scan our network to find potential vulnerabilities.

### Vulnerability Scans 02:18-02:49

Vulnerability scans can show us all sorts of potential vulnerabilities, depending on the type of scan we do. Most vulnerability scanning programs allow us to specify what we test and how the test is performed.

Vulnerability scans aren't only used on network and host systems. We should run our scans on local applications and web applications as well. Many times, these applications have vulnerabilities that allow a hacker access to our network. Once we know what we're testing, we need to determine how we want the test to be run.

### Intrusive and Non-Intrusive Scans 02:49-03:23

Our first decision is whether to perform an intrusive or non-intrusive scan. An intrusive scan finds the potential vulnerability and then actively tries to exploit it. This leads to more accurate results, but it obviously can't be done on a live production system. A non-intrusive scan is the more common option. This method scans the network and lists all potential vulnerabilities. The downside is that the scan can't confirm whether the system is actually vulnerable or not. These scans can be performed on a live production system, but the network defender will need to take additional actions to verify the findings.

### Credentialed and Non-Credentialed Scans 03:23-03:56

We also need to decide whether to run a non-credentialed or credentialed scan. A non-credentialed scan shows open ports, protocols, and services that are exposed on our host system. This shows vulnerabilities that an outside attacker might be able to take advantage of. Unfortunately for us, these scans really only give us a surface view. A credentialed scan usually uses an administrator's account, which ends up giving us a much deeper look at our network. These scans can be more difficult to manage in a large organization, though, because we would need credentials for each host.

### False Positives and False Negatives 03:56-04:33

When we run our scans, we need to look out for false positives and false negatives that might pop up. A false positive is when the scan says there's a vulnerability, but there's really not. False positives are just one of those things that happen, and we should be able to weed them out with our follow-up. False negatives occur when our scan misses a vulnerability that actually does exist. These might happen when our scan configurations aren't set up properly.

To help protect against these misleading results, we should always run multiple vulnerability scans with different configurations. This helps ensure that we get the most accurate results.

### CVSS 04:33-05:03

Once our scans are done, potential vulnerabilities are ranked by their severity. A common ranking system is the Common Vulnerability Scoring System, or CVSS.

The CVSS determines the vulnerability risk based on three metrics: base, temporal, and environmental. Base metrics describe a vulnerability's unique characteristics. Temporal metrics describe its changeable attributes, and environmental metrics describe vulnerabilities that are only present in certain environments or implementations.

### CVE Codes 05:03-06:24

Scan results often list the vulnerabilities by their CVE code. CVE stands for Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures. This is a free and publicly available list of standardized identifiers for known software vulnerabilities and exposures. There are currently 94 CVE numbering authorities from 16 countries, which provides a baseline for evaluation. CVE also provides standardization, which allows data exchange

for cybersecurity automation and also aids professionals as they determine the best assessment tools for themselves.

Aside from running vulnerability scans, two other assessments that should take place on a regular basis are log audits and system configuration reviews.

Computer systems all generate log files for events that happen on the system. When a security breach has occurred, we can review these log files to determine the breach's exact cause. Regular log auditing can also help us discover security issues that haven't been detected yet.

We should also make sure to review system policy configuration settings regularly. This includes things like password requirements, access controls, permissions, and other basic security and network settings. Improperly configured systems are a common vulnerability.

Running vulnerability scans and reviewing log files helps us identify weaknesses in our network, which we can then take action to remedy before a hacker finds them and causes damage.

### Summary 06:24-06:59

That'll wrap up this lesson. In this lesson, we looked at how to perform vulnerability assessments. Network defenders should implement threat hunting, which is the process of scanning and monitoring a network to find suspicious activity that may've slipped past the automated defenses. To get the most out of threat hunting, we should stay up to date by monitoring threat feeds and bulletins. Running vulnerability scans, regular log auditing, and reviewing system policy configurations helps us find vulnerabilities that exist on our network and allows us to remedy them quickly.

## 11.4.2 Vulnerability Assessment Facts

A vulnerability assessment is the process of identifying vulnerabilities in a system or network. Attackers attempt to take advantage of vulnerabilities to gain access to information or to a network. A security operations team should also perform vulnerability assessments to discover and close any security holes and provide a more secure network.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Threat hunting
- Vulnerability scans
- Additional assessments

### Threat Hunting

To be fully prepared against network attacks, network defenders should be proactive.

Threat hunting is the human-based, proactive and methodical searching and monitoring of the network, systems, and software in order to detect any malicious or suspicious activity that may have evaded the automated tools. There are typically three steps in the threat hunting process:

<ul>
   <li>
    Trigger - In this phase, something has alerted the network defenders to a possible issue in a specific system or area of
      the network. The trigger can be almost anything including:
    <ul>
     <li>
      An alert from the IDS/IPS or another security device.
     </li>
     <li>
      A hypothesis about a possible problem. For example, if the threat hunter reads about a new type of attack and they
          feel their system could be vulnerable, they may need to do some investigation.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Investigation - The threat hunter uses a variety of tools and technology to dive into the network system. This phase
      continues until the trigger is deemed safe or the threat is fully understood.
   </li>
   <li>
    Resolution - In the final phase, the threat hunter communicates all information to the appropriate teams so they can
      respond and mitigate the threat.
   </li>
</ul>

An effective threat hunter needs to stay up to date on the latest threats. The more common types of resources to gather this information are:

<ul>
   <li>
    Threat feeds - These feeds provide real-time updates on cyber threats across the world. They can provide information such
      as suspicious domains, known malware, known malicious IP addresses, and more.
   </li>
   <li>
    Advisories and bulletins - Whereas a threat feed is updated in real time, advisories and bulletins are usually updated
      weekly. However, they provide much more detailed information on the newest threats.
   </li>
   <li>
    Intelligence fusion - Intelligence fusion is the sharing of information between multiple government agencies and private
      security firms. Threat feeds, advisories, and bulletins all rely on the information shared between different agencies.
   </li>
</ul>

### Vulnerability Scans

Vulnerability scanners are one of the main tools that are used during a vulnerability assessment. The vulnerability scanner is a software program that scans and identifies any weaknesses in a network, computer system, local application, or even web application. A vulnerability scanner looks for weaknesses such as:

<ul>
   <li>
    Open ports
   </li>
   <li>
    Active IP addresses
   </li>
   <li>
    Running applications or services
   </li>
   <li>
    Missing critical patches
   </li>
   <li>
    Default user accounts that have not been disabled
   </li>
   <li>
    Default or blank passwords
   </li>
   <li>
    Misconfigurations
   </li>
   <li>
    Missing security controls
   </li>
</ul>

There are different options when running a vulnerability scan. The table below explains each of these options:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Vulnerability Scan Option
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Intrusive
     </td>
     <td>
      A intrusive scan finds a potential vulnerability and then actively attempts to exploit it. This leads
          to more accurate results but cannot be done on a live system.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Non-intrusive
     </td>
     <td>
      A non-intrusive scan is the more common type of scan performed. This method scans the network and
          lists all potential vulnerabilities but is unable to validate if the system is vulnerable.
      <p>
       This type of scan is able to performed on live systems and requires the network defender to take additional
          actions.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Credentialed
     </td>
     <td>
      In a credentialed scan, the scanner uses an administrator or other account's credentials to
          perform the scan.
      <br>
      This method shows a deeper look at the network and is able to identify more vulnerabilities than a non-credentialed
          scan. For example, a credentialed scan of a Windows workstation allows the Registry to be probed for security
          vulnerabilities.
      <p>
       These scans can be more difficult to manage in a large organization because credentials are needed for each host
          being scanned.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Non-credentialed
     </td>
     <td>
      With a non-credentialed scan, the security administrator does not authenticate to the system prior to
          running the scan. A non-credential scan shows open ports, protocols, and services that are exposed on a host system. This shows
          vulnerabilities that an outside attacker might be able to take advantage of.
      <p>
       These scans do not typically produce the same level of detail as a credentialed scan.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

When performing vulnerability scans, false positives and false negatives need to be looked out for.

<ul>
   <li>
    False positives occur when a scan says there is a vulnerability but there is none. These happen as a matter of course and
      should be discovered during the follow-up to the scan.
   </li>
   <li>
    False negatives occur when the scanner misses a vulnerability. These are especially dangerous and usually occur due to
      improper configuration settings in the vulnerability scanner.
   </li>
</ul>

After running vulnerability scans, any potential vulnerabilities are ranked based on their severity. A common ranking system is the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). This scoring system creates a way to organize and prioritize discovered vulnerabilities. The CVSS scoring system is nationally and internationally recognized.

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        CVSS v2.0 Ratings
        </th>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        CVSS v3.0 Ratings
        </th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody></tbody>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Severity
        </th>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Base Score Range
        </th>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Severity
        </th>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Base Score Range
        </th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>-</td>
        <td>-</td>
        <td>None</td>
        <td>0.0</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Low</td>
        <td>0.0-3.9</td>
        <td>Low</td>
        <td>0.1-3.9</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Medium</td>
        <td>4.0-6.9</td>
        <td>Medium</td>
        <td>4.0-6.9</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>High</td>
        <td>7.0-10.0</td>
        <td>High</td>
        <td>7.0-8.9</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>-</td>
        <td>-</td>
        <td>Critical</td>
        <td>9.0-10.0</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

A CVSS calculator can determine the risk and severity of a vulnerability based on the three metrics described in the following table:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Metric
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Base
     </td>
     <td>
      Denotes a vulnerability's unique characteristics.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Temporal
     </td>
     <td>
      Denotes the changeable attributes of a vulnerability.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Environmental
     </td>
     <td>
      Denotes vulnerabilities that are present only in certain environments or implementations.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

The results from a vulnerability scan often list the vulnerabilities by their Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) code.

The CVE is a list of standardized identifiers for known software vulnerabilities and exposures. It is free to use, and it is publicly available at cve.mitre.org. Benefits of this system include the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    There are currently 94 CVE numbering authorities from 16 countries providing a baseline for evaluation.
   </li>
   <li>
    The identifiers provide standardization, which allows data exchange for cybersecurity automation.
   </li>
   <li>
    This list aids in determining the best assessment tools.
   </li>
   <li>
    The CVE list supplies the national vulnerability database.
   </li>
</ul>

### Additional Assessments

Aside from running vulnerability scans, two other assessments that should take place on a regular basis are log audits and system configuration reviews.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Additional Assessment
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Log auditing
     </td>
     <td>
      Computer systems generate log files for all events that happen on the system. Following a security breach, these log files can be reviewed to determine the cause of the breach and how it
          happened.
      <p>
       Regular log auditing can also help discover potential security issues.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      System policy settings
     </td>
     <td>
      System policy settings should be reviewed regularly. These policy settings can include:
      <br>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Password requirements
       </li>
       <li>
        Access controls
       </li>
       <li>
        File and system permissions
       </li>
       <li>
        Other basic security and network settings.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       Weak system policy settings are a major reason for vulnerabilities in computer and network systems.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

## 11.4.3 SIEM and SOAR

### SIEM and SOAR 00:00-00:33

To protect our networks, we usually implement multiple automated devices such as IDSs, IPSs, firewalls, and security configurations. The problem with implementing these systems is that the amount of generated data becomes overwhelming for a human being to sort through. To help with this, we implement SIEM and SOAR systems. In this lesson, I'll go over each of these systems and how they work to help protect networks.

### SIEM Tools 00:33-01:46

Security information and event management tools, or SIEM tools, work by gathering all sorts of information from a network and putting it together in one central location. More than just aggregating data, SIEM systems can also actively read all this information and determine if there's an actual threat! Let's see how this works.

Everything starts with the collectors. Log collectors are responsible for gathering event logs from security appliances, host systems, and applications. We can also add sensors to the system in order to capture network packets or data inputs from all the disparate systems on our network. This data is sent to the event collectors, and the event collectors send it all to the SIEM.

SIEM software takes this data, reads and analyzes it, and separates it into different categories such as logon attempts, database entries, port scans, network congestion, and more. You can review the reports to help find any suspicious network activity.

If data exceeds the defined thresholds of normal network activity, the SIEM sends an alert to the security administrator, who then can investigate it and take care of the threat as needed.

### Next-Generation SIEM 01:46-02:13

The next generation of SIEM systems are taking things to the next level. By implementing artificial intelligence and machine learning, these new systems can analyze user behavior and sentiment to determine if a threat exists. This can be used to detect threats like spear phishing attacks and insider threats.

SIEM systems are great at helping network administrators filter data and improve security monitoring. But, any alert still requires manual intervention.

### SOAR Systems 02:13-03:58

The acronym SOAR stands for Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response. SOAR systems also gather and analyze data, but these systems take it to the next level. SOAR is a solution stack of compatible software programs that allow an organization to collect security-threat data from multiple sources and respond to low-level security events without human assistance. Let's break this down and see how these systems work.

SOAR systems gather the same information as SIEM systems do, but they also gather data from multiple third-party tools. The SOAR system coordinates these tools, sensors, and collectors to work together to gather as much relevant data as possible. This is the orchestration piece of a SOAR system.

You can set up a SOAR system to automate tasks that are routine, tedious, and time consuming, such as looking for and deleting phishing emails. This is usually configured using checklists called playbooks or a series of conditional steps called runbooks. Automating these tasks frees up time for your security team to focus on more important things.

Finally, a SOAR system is able to automatically respond to threats. For example, if malware is discovered, a SOAR system can identify the threat and quarantine it instead of just sending an alert.

SOAR systems help to reduce a security operation team's workload by automating workflows and handling low-level tasks automatically. You should use both SIEM and SOAR systems for improved security. Your SOAR system can likely respond to the low-level threats that the SIEM system uncovers, and your security team can take responsibility for the higher-level issues.

### Summary 03:58-04:34

That'll wrap things up for now. In this lesson, we went over SIEM and SOAR systems. SIEM programs work by gathering all sorts of data from sensors and collectors. Then this data is analyzed, and alerts are sent out for potential threats. A SOAR system takes this one step further and is able to respond to low-level threats itself. You can configure SOAR systems to automate basic tasks that take up your organization's valuable time. Using both systems can greatly improve your network security.

## 11.4.4 SIEM and SOAR Facts

Multiple automated systems, such as IDS/IPS, firewalls, and security policies are implemented to protect networks. The issue with implementing these systems is the amount of data that is generated. The large volume of data becomes extremely time consuming to sort through, making it nearly impossible to determine which threats are credible. SIEM and SOAR systems can be implemented to assist in this process.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Security information and event management (SIEM) systems
- Security orchestration, automation, and response (SOAR) systems

### SIEM Systems

SIEM tools work by gathering different types of network information and data. This information is moved to one central place.

More than just aggregating data, SIEM systems can also actively read all this information and determine if there is an actual threat. The following table describes the different components of a SIEM system:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     SIEM Components
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Collectors
     </td>
     <td>
      Collectors are responsible for gathering all
            event logs from the configured devices and securely sending them to
            the SIEM system. Collectors are basically the middle man between
            devices and the SIEM system.
      <p>
       Additional sensors can be set up on the network to gather other data,
            such as network packets or data inputs from specified
            network devices. This data is also sent to the collectors which then forward 
			it to the SIEM system.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Data handling
     </td>
     <td>
      The SIEM system receives the data from the
            collectors and then reads, analyzes, and separates the data
            into different categories. Examples of categories can include:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Logon attempts
       </li>
       <li>
        Database entries
       </li>
       <li>
        Port scans
       </li>
       <li>
        Network congestion
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       The security operations team can review this data to determine if
              there is any suspicious activity on the network.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      SIEM alerts
     </td>
     <td>
      The SIEM system is configured with network
            baseline data. As the data is analyzed and sorted, any data that
            exceeds the established threshold triggers an alert.
      <p>
       The alert is sent to the security administrator who can then
            investigate and take appropriate actions.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

The next generation of SIEM systems are taking things to the next level by implementing artificial intelligence and machine learning. This allows the SIEM system to analyze user behavior and user sentiment to determine if a threat exists.

> This can be used to detect threats such as spear phishing attacks and insider threats.

SIEM systems are great tools that help network administrators filter data and improve security monitoring. Still, all alerts require manual intervention.

### SOAR Systems

SOAR systems also gather and analyze data like SIEM systems, but they take the analysis to the next level.

SOAR is a solution stack of compatible software programs that allow an organization to collect data about security threats from multiple sources and respond to low-level security events without human assistance. The following table explains each component of a SOAR system:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     SOAR System Component
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Security orchestration
     </td>
     <td>
      The Orchestration component of the SOAR system is
            responsible for gathering the data and information from across the
            network.
            A SOAR system gathers the same data as a SIEM system, but it can also
            implement many different third-party tools. The SOAR system
            coordinates these tools, sensors, and collectors to work
            together.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Security automation
     </td>
     <td>
      The SOAR system can be set up to automate tasks
            that are routine, tedious, and time consuming. This includes tasks such as looking for
            and deleting phishing emails. These tasks are usually configured using 
			playbooks or runbooks:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Playbooks are linear checklists of required steps and actions
                that are taken to respond to an alert. While playbooks do
                support automated actions, they are often used to document the
                processes and procedures that are to be used by a human during a
                manual intervention.
       </li>
       <li>
        Runbooks consist of a series of conditional steps to perform
                actions, such as sending notifications or threat containment.
                This automation speeds up the overall incident-response process.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       Automating these tasks frees up time for security operations to
              focus on other more important tasks.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Security response
     </td>
     <td>
      SOAR systems are able to automatically take
            actions against threats. For example, if malware is discovered, the
            SOAR system can automatically identify and quarantine the threat as
            needed.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

SOAR systems can help reduce a security operation team’s workload by automating workflows and handling low-level tasks automatically.

Both SIEM and SOAR systems should be used for improved security. The SOAR system is able to respond to the alerts the SIEM system generates. It can handle the easy ones while leaving the higher-level alerts to the security operations team.

## 11.4.5 Conduct Vulnerability Scans

### Conduct Vulnerability Scans 00:00-00:43

Throughout this course, we talk about many scanning methods. Typically, you scan for a specific purpose, often to look for vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scanning attempts to find points that can be exploited on a computer or network.

A vulnerability scan can detect and sometimes classify system weaknesses in computers, networks, and other equipment. The scan can also predict the effectiveness of countermeasures that you might implement. A scan may be performed by an IT department or someone hired to perform a penetration test. There are several good tools that perform vulnerability scanning. But if you're on a budget, you can use nmap with a script, the Nmap Scripting Engine, to do a vulnerability scan.

### Get the Nmap Script 00:43-01:44

I'm on a Kali Linux system. This system comes with a whole bunch of scripts, but the one we want isn't included. That's not a problem; we can go out to the web and find it. To get the script, we'll go to Github.

I've already located the web page with the script. This is the one that we want. I'll open that link. Down here, in the description, it says that the script uses some well-known service to provide information about vulnerabilities. That's really not a great description, but I happen to know that it works pretty well.

To get the script, you need to click on this Clone or Download link and copy the address. Now, we'll open the terminal, type in 'git clone', paste in the rest of the address, and press Enter on the keyboard. I've already done that, so I won't do it again.

When I was doing this, I wasn't paying attention, and it went into the root directory, so I had to go in and move it to the /usr/share/nmap/scripts directory so nmap knows where to find it by default. If you have some basic Linux skills, it shouldn't be a problem to move to the directory before downloading the script.

### Run the Script 01:44-03:18

All right. On my network, I have a Windows 10 system, and I've installed XAMPP on it with some web pages, php, forms, and so on. I want to put it out there facing the public internet. But I'm not sure if it has any vulnerabilities. This is my example. I could also have other systems that I can scan. But for this demo, I'm just going to scan this particular system.

Since I'm familiar with this system, I already know the IP address. To begin, I want to just do a regular service scan with nmap to see what we get. For that, I'll type in 'nmap -sV 10.10.10.195' and press Enter. It takes a few seconds to get the results. When it's done, you can see that I have a few open ports and services running. As I already mentioned, this system is running a web server, Apache, along with other services, so I'm concerned about it. Now let's run this scan with the script.

To run the script, we'll type 'nmap - -script nmap-vulners -sV 10.10.10.195' and press Enter. This will take a few seconds.

The scan is done. Now we have some additional information. Right here, we have some information under Apache and port 443. I'm going to hold down the Ctrl key and click on this hyperlink. It'll open Firefox, and I'll go to the page where I can read more about this particular vulnerability. I'll scroll down. Under the description, it tells me exactly what this issue is. It looks like someone could execute some code, so it's probably not something I want to let loose on the web until I do more research and fix any problems.

### Other Scripts 03:18-03:36

While we're in Firefox, let's jump back over to the Github tab. I'll go back a page. There are other scripts here that do some additional scans. If you have a test environment (and you should), you can download others and see what type of results you can get. Remember that you can run multiple scripts in one scan.

### Summary 03:36-04:02

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we used nmap and the Nmap Scripting Engine to do a vulnerability scan on a Windows 10 system running XAMPP. First, we went to Github to locate the scripts we needed. Then we did a regular service scan with nmap. We did another scan using the script, and then we used the web to learn more about one of the vulnerabilities that the script found.

## 11.4.6 Scanning a Network with Nessus

### Scan a Network with Nessus 00:00-00:26

In this demonstration, we're going to work with the Nessus Vulnerability Scanner. Nessus is a very powerful security tool that you can use to scan for security vulnerabilities on your network.

Nessus is accessed via a web page on port 8834. I've installed Nessus on this machine, so I'm just connecting to localhost. For this demo, I'm running an evaluation copy of Nessus, but that's sufficient to show what it can do.

### Create a Scan 00:26-01:28

Let's start by logging in. After I log in, we see the home page. Here, we can see the various scans that have already been created. There are many different features and options in Nessus, but for this demo, I'll stick to showing how to create and run a network scan.

While I could create a custom scan profile, Nessus includes quite a few useful templates that can accomplish most of what I typically need. To create a scan, I'll start by selecting New Scan from the top right. Here, we can see some of the templates I mentioned. I'm going to run a basic network scan, so I'll select that template. This template scans a specified host or network range for known vulnerabilities.

To set up the scan, I'll need to provide a name for it, as well as a network address that I'd like to scan. I'm going to name this 'home gateway scan' since I'll be scanning the computers at my house with it. My gateway is located at 10.0.0.1, so that's what I'll supply as the target. There are many other options that I could configure, including port discovery and authenticated scanning, but I just want to do a simple scan today. Since everything I need is configured, I'll click Save.

### Scan 01:28-02:02

Now that I've returned to the home page, I can see that the new scan has been created, but isn't running yet. I can click Launch to start it.

The scan's title changes to bold, and a spinning green icon appears to show that the scan is active. I can watch the scan live by clicking on it. This screen shows information about the different hosts that are discovered and the vulnerabilities that are found. Nessus also keeps a historical log of all the times a scan has been run so that I can compare how vulnerabilities have improved on my network over time.

This scan is going to take a while, so I'll pause the demo until it's finished.

### Scan Results 02:02-03:01

Now that the scan has finished, we can see that my gateway has quite a few vulnerabilities. Luckily, most of them are labelled as informational. This means that the tool found information that could be useful for a security administrator to know about a host, but that the information doesn't immediately indicate a problem. An example of the type of data that would be labelled as informational is a list of open network ports. Network ports have to be open on some machines for them to function properly, but opening unexpected ports can cause problems.

More serious vulnerabilities are color-coded from green to red. Low-severity vulnerabilities aren't as interesting as high or critical vulnerabilities, so I'll take a look at one of the worst issues Nessus found.

When I select a vulnerability, it shows me information about the issue. In many cases, software creators patch high and critical vulnerabilities, and a relevant CVE entry is listed. Nessus provide a description and a suggested solution for many issues, as well as relevant information related to the vulnerability.

### Summary 03:01-03:17

And that's it for this demo. We discussed how to conduct a vulnerability scan with Nessus. We looked at what Nessus is and what it does. And we ran a vulnerability scan on my home network and explored the results.
