---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 13.1 Organizational Security Policies
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How can an onboarding process improve the security of an organization?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why should employees be required to sign employment agreements?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to conduct an exit interview?
    </li>
    <li>
     What security issues must be identified and addressed during the onboarding phase of a third-party relationship?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the role of the Service Level Agreement (SLA)?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why are policies important for organizational security?
    </li>
</ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Onboarding
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of integrating a new employee or third-party relationship into an organization. The
        integration includes policies, processes, and organizational culture.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Offboarding
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of ensuring security when an employee or third-party relationship is terminated.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Fraud
    </td>
    <td>
     Fraud is the use of deception to illegally obtain company assets or profits.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Collusion
    </td>
    <td>
     Collusion is a situation in which multiple people conspire to commit fraud or theft.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Exam</th>
      <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Objective</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>TestOut Security Pro</td>
      <td>
        5.0 Audit and Security Assessment
        <p>5.1 Implement Logging and Auditing</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>CompTIA Security+ SY0-601</td>
      <td>
        5.3. Explain the importance of policies to organizational security.
        <ul>
          <li>
            Personnel
            <ul>
              <li>Acceptable use policy</li>
              <li>Job rotation</li>
              <li>Mandatory vacation</li>
              <li>Separation of duties</li>
              <li>Least privilege</li>
              <li>Clean desk space</li>
              <li>Background checks</li>
              <li>Non-disclosure agreement (NDA)</li>
              <li>Social media analysis</li>
              <li>Onboarding</li>
              <li>Offboarding</li>
              <li>
                User training
                <ul>
                  <li>Gamification</li>
                  <li>Capture the flag</li>
                  <li>
                    Phishing campaigns
                    <ul>
                      <li>Phishing simulations</li>
                    </ul>
                  </li>
                  <li>Computer-based training (CBT)</li>
                  <li>Role-based training</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>Diversity of training techniques</li>
          <li>
            Third-party risk management
            <ul>
              <li>Vendors</li>
              <li>Supply chain</li>
              <li>Business partners</li>
              <li>Service level agreement (SLA)</li>
              <li>Memorandum of understanding (MOU)</li>
              <li>Measurement systems analysis (MSA)</li>
              <li>Business partnership agreement (BPA)</li>
              <li>End of life (EOL)</li>
              <li>End of service (EOS)</li>
              <li>NDA</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Data
            <ul>
              <li>Classification</li>
              <li>Governance</li>
              <li>Retention</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Credential policies
            <ul>
              <li>Personnel</li>
              <li>Third party</li>
              <li>Devices</li>
              <li>Service accounts</li>
              <li>Administrator/root accounts</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Organizational policies
            <ul>
              <li>Change management</li>
              <li>Change control</li>
              <li>Asset management</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 13.1.1 Personnel Policies

### Summary 00:00-00:24

In this lesson, we're going to discuss personnel policies. Employees are a critical part of any successful business, but they also represent one of the greatest risks to your organization's security. Using proper employment practices helps mitigate this risk. They should encompass all aspects of employment, from pre-employment screenings to offboarding.

### Pre-Employment 00:24-00:47

Employee security should start even before an employee starts work. To ensure that a potential employee is a low security risk, an organization should perform a background check. This check may include checking into a person's criminal history, credit history, and employment history. It could also involve drug testing, identity verification, or a review of their social media presence.

### Onboarding 00:47-01:38

Once you've decided to hire an individual, you'll need to set up a work environment for them. This process is called onboarding. It primarily involves a lot of HR paperwork, but there are a few onboarding procedures that involve security professionals.

When you're setting up the new employee's user accounts, security credentials, and building access, make sure to assign the appropriate access rights. To do this, you'll need to know the new employee's job title, duties, and place in the organizational hierarchy.

It's also important that new employees sign necessary forms and documents. A non-disclosure agreement stipulates that employees can't reveal confidential or proprietary information to any non-employee. A non-compete agreement prevents former employees from working for competitors. And an acceptable use policy specifies how employees are allowed to use the information organization's network resources.

### Training 01:38-02:24

As we've discussed, employees are a serious security risk. Sometimes they're intentionally trying to cause harm, but more often, they're simply uninformed. One way to help secure your data and your network is to hold regular security trainings for your employees. These trainings should include topics like how to recognize security breaches and exploits when they occur, what to do in the event of a security breach, and sample scenarios with recommended responses.

Training should be ongoing and train employees on new security issues and refresh them on older topics. Ideally, you should use a combination of teaching techniques so you have a better chance of engaging everyone and helping them retain information.

In addition to classroom training, security methods can be taught through games, simulations, role-based hands-on training, or computer-based training.

### Daily Operations 02:24-02:35

Onboarding and training provide a great starting point, but you still need ongoing policies to ensure that employee performance and duties are secure.

### Separation of Duties 02:35-03:23

So, how can we better secure our daily operations? First, let's look at separation of duties. Separation of duties restricts the amount of access or influence individuals control, which removes single points of failure within the organization.

For example, let's say an employee in accounting approves business expenses, verifies expenditures, signs checks, and withdraws funds. The risk of this employee embezzling company money is significantly multiplied because this one person performs all of these duties. In this situation, this person could easily become a single point of failure.

With separation of duties, expenditures and withdrawals should be verified by at least two sets of people. And maybe the CFO should sign the checks instead of the accountant. This way, we can eliminate this single point of failure.

### Job Rotation 03:23-03:49

You can also enhance security by implementing duty rotations. For example, after a couple of months, each person's responsibility shifts to another person, like a chore chart.

So, using our previous example, instead of signing checks, the CFO verifies and approves expenditures, while others handle withdrawals and signing checks. Duty rotations also heighten security by continually monitoring accountability during the rotation process.

### Least Privilege 03:49-04:42

Now let's move on to the principle of least privilege. The idea behind this principle is that employees only have access to information they absolutely need for their job function. Employees with too much access could either intentionally or unintentionally compromise security.

For example, administrative accounts should only be given to people who need them, and this access should only be used by employees who are actively performing administrative duties. A best practice is to log in with a standard user account and then only change to an administrative account to perform a task that requires it. When you're done with that task, you switch back to the standard user account.

It's never a good idea to be logged in as an administrator while browsing the web, reading emails, or using social media. An exploit coming through that internet connection could easily obtain elevated privileges on that workstation, which hugely increases the potential for damages.

### Mandatory Vacations 04:42-05:16

Another practice to increase security is a mandatory vacation policy. The best way to implement mandatory vacations is to require employees to request vacation days in advance, like at the beginning of the year. The benefits of mandatory vacations are twofold. First, they allow employees to take a break from work, rest, and recharge. Second, they provide the security administrator the ability to detect fraudulent activities while employees are away. For example, if you notice that a reoccurring security breach stops while a particular employee is away on vacation, that could help you identify its cause.

### Offboarding 05:16-06:18

The last step in employment is offboarding. Whether an employee resigns, retires, or is terminated, offboarding procedures keep the company safe as they depart.

First, you should disable or delete that employee's user account. An active, unused account allows easy access to your network. When you delete a user account, be sure not to delete that user's data in the process. Make sure their files are preserved. You want that data available for future use. So you may want to disable former employees' accounts rather than delete them.

You should also change security keys and require the return of access tokens, devices, and phones. And when an employee leaves the organization, Human Resources should always conduct an exit interview.

During this interview, it's important to address any concerns, dissatisfactions, or feedback from the employee. With this information, you'll have a better idea of why the employee is leaving and be able to address any remaining concerns. This is also a good time to remind the employee of any non-disclosure or non-compete agreements they may have signed during their onboarding process.

### Summary 06:18-06:38

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed the importance of personnel policies during the pre-employment process, onboarding, training, and daily operations, and we finished by discussing offboarding policies that protect the company and mitigate risks.

## 13.1.2 Personnel Policy Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Vulnerabilities
   </li>
   <li>
    Pre-employment policies
   </li>
   <li>
    Onboarding policies
   </li>
   <li>
    Security awareness training
   </li>
   <li>
    Daily operational policies
   </li>
   <li>
    Offboarding policies
   </li>
</ul>

### Vulnerabilities

Employees can present a high-level security risk. The following table defines common employee-related security vulnerabilities.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Vulnerability</th>
      <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Fraud</td>
      <td>
        <i class="fs-italicize"> Fraud </i>
        is the use of deception to divert company assets or profits to an
        employee. An example of a situation in which fraud is possible is
        where the same employee both issues a product and takes payment for
        the product. Separation of duties is the most effective method for
        preventing fraud. Mandatory vacations are one way to help detect
        fraud. An organization can compare if the activity ceases to happen
        only when a specific employee is away.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Collusion</td>
      <td>
        <i class="fs-italicize"> Collusion </i>
        is a situation in which multiple employees conspire to commit fraud
        or theft. Collusion is designed to overcome the separation of duties
        countermeasures. The following example demonstrates how collusion
        would be required for theft of company assets:
        <ul>
          <li>An employee is responsible for ordering equipment.</li>
          <li>
            A second employee is responsible for approving purchase orders
            for the equipment.
          </li>
          <li>
            A third employee is responsible for taking possession of
            equipment.
          </li>
          <li>
            A fourth employee is responsible for inventorying equipment.
          </li>
        </ul>
        In the case of collusion, all four employees would have to be
        involved for the equipment to be stolen. Possible methods for
        collusion protection are:
        <ul>
          <li>Separation of duties.</li>
          <li>Two-man control.</li>
          <li>Principle of least privilege.</li>
          <li>
            Mandatory vacations (which allow problems to surface and gives
            you time to audit the system while the employee is away).
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Pre-employment Policies

To ensure that a prospective employee is a low-security risk, an organization should perform pre-employment processing. A pre-employment processing checklist should include the following activities:

<ul>
   <li>
    Perform a background check of the prospective employee. These checks may include criminal records, credit reports, drug
      testing, identity verification, previous employers, social security verification, driving records, and reference checks.
   </li>
   <li>
    Perform a background check of the prospective employee's references.
   </li>
   <li>
    Verify the prospective employee's educational declaration.
   </li>
   <li>
    Verify the prospective employee's job history.
   </li>
   <li>
    Conduct a criminal background check.
   </li>
   <li>
    Obtain a credit history (if appropriate).
   </li>
   <li>
    Perform a social media analysis to gather information on a potential employee's online presence.
   </li>
</ul>

### Onboarding Policies

Onboarding is the process followed when setting up a partnership with a new employee. While this process primarily involves a lot of HR paperwork, it also involves setting up a work environment for the employee. There are a few onboarding procedures that security professionals should understand. Consider the following documentation when onboarding an employee:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Documentation
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Non-disclosure agreement (NDA)
    </td>
    <td>
     An NDA is a contract in which both parties agree not to share proprietary or confidential information
        gathered during the business relationship.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Non-compete agreement
    </td>
    <td>
     A non-compete agreement states that an employee will not work for or work with a competing organization
        for a set period during or after employment with your organization.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Acceptable use policy (AUP)
    </td>
    <td>
     The AUP defines how users should use information and network resources in the organization. For
        example, it might identify the employees' rights to use company property, such as internet access and computer
        equipment, for personal use.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Security Awareness Training

To enforce security policy measures, implement appropriate technical and procedural controls that adequately protect systems and data. However, even the best control can fail if users are not properly informed or trained. It is important that each employee who uses, relies on, or manages some aspect of your organization's information systems understands the specific information security responsibilities.

The goals of a security awareness training program include making employees aware of:

<ul>
   <li>
    The security policy.
   </li>
   <li>
    Threats to the company's assets.
   </li>
   <li>
    Laws, regulations, and guidelines that employees are required to follow.
   </li>
   <li>
    Sensitive information and how to protect it.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identification and reporting of events, such as social engineering, theft, and other violations of the security
      policy.
   </li>
</ul>

Consider the following concepts when designing training for your new and existing employees:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Concept
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Gamification
    </td>
    <td>
     Gamification involves using games to help teach, practice, and retain information.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Phishing simulations
    </td>
    <td>
     A phishing simulation can be used to provide employee awareness and can help to reduce the
        effectiveness of potential phishing attacks.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Computer-based training (CBT)
    </td>
    <td>
     CBT is delivered through a computer. It could be through a software application or it could be provided
        over the internet
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Role-based training
    </td>
    <td>
     Training on the standards, procedures, and baselines that apply to the employee's specific
        job.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Daily Operational Policies

Here are some organizational policies to consider for the day-to-day employee operations within your organization.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Policy
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Job rotation
    </td>
    <td>
     A requirement for job rotation cross-trains individuals and rotates users between positions on a
        regular basis. Job rotation helps to catch irregularities that could arise when one person is unsupervised over an area of
        responsibility.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Mandatory vacation
    </td>
    <td>
     A requirement for mandatory vacations requires employees to take vacations of a specified length. These
        vacations can be used to audit actions taken by the employee and provide a passage of time during which problems caused by
        misconduct could become evident.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Separation of duties
    </td>
    <td>
     Separation of duties restricts the amount of access or influence an employee has, thereby removing
        single points of failure within the organization
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Least privilege
    </td>
    <td>
     The concept of least privilege ensures that a user has access only to the information and resources
        needed to effectively do the employee's job.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Clean desk space
    </td>
    <td>
     A clean desk policy requires employees to clear their desks when they are away. All notes and documents
        should be properly stored or disposed of and should not be left laying on an employee’s desk.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Offboarding

Offboarding is the process followed when ending a relationship with an employee or other third party. This termination process identifies the tasks an organization takes when an employee voluntarily or involuntarily leaves the organization. This is a key area in which the proper processes can ensure the protection of company assets. Always use a checklist to ensure that you have completed all the appropriate tasks. Items on the checklist should include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Disable the user account, including physical access, electronic access, and telephone access.
   </li>
   <li>
    Perform an exit interview. The exit interview may help to reduce the number of frivolous lawsuits related to employee
      termination. During the exit interview, the employee should always sign a statement indicating agreement with the reason for
      termination. When an employee has been terminated for violation of the security policy, a signature agreeing to the reason
      for termination is especially important because:
   </li>
   <ul>
    <li>
     The signature can be used as evidence that the employee violated a security policy.
    </li>
    <li>
     The employee recognizes the violation.
    </li>
    <li>
     The employee also recognizes that it was grounds for termination.
    </li>
   </ul>
</ul>

## 13.1.3 Managing Third Parties

### Manage Third Parties 00:00-00:27

It's common for one organization to work directly with a third party in a vendor, supply chain, or business partner relationship. These relationships often require the both parties' information systems to connect and integrate. Doing this exposes both network to risks. You'll want to pay careful attention to the onboarding phase, the ongoing operations phase, and the offboarding phase of this third-party relationship.

### Onboarding Phase 00:27-01:53

Let's take a look at the onboarding phase first. During this phase of the relationship, you'll want to sit down with individuals from the third-party organization. Compare each of your organization's security policies and infrastructure. Are the security policies for each organization similar? If there are substantial differences, you should discuss them. Do both organizations have similar incident response procedures? If there are differences, how will each party handle incident response? Are the security controls similar? Are the audit policies similar? Is the security posture of each organization compatible enough to work together, or will the integration expose vulnerabilities in one or both organizations? Finding answers to these questions helps you to identify and evaluate differences and potential risks up front.

There will always be risks, so you'll need to work with your organization's leadership to determine if the risks of this potential relationship outweigh the benefits. If so, it's okay to walk away. But if the benefits outweigh the risks, you'll want to move forward with the relationship.

After that decision is made, you need to create an interoperability agreement. This agreement is a collection of documents that identifies the key responsibilities in the relationship. The documents will specify who is going to perform key tasks, how those tasks will be measured, and how decisions will be handled, and other such information.

### Service Level Agreement 01:53-02:15

The first interoperability agreement document you need is a Service Level Agreement, or SLA. An SLA states what each organization in the relationship will do and at what level. It may also define how disputes will be managed, provide warranties, specify disaster recovery procedures, and specify when the agreement will be terminated.

### Memorandum of Understanding 02:15-02:30

Second, we need a Memorandum of Understanding, or MOU. An MOU provides a brief summary of the relationship. It describes which party is responsible for performing specific tasks . Basically, it says who is going to do what, and when they'll do it.

### Business Partnership Agreement 02:30-02:47

Next, we'll need a Business Partnership Agreement, or BPA. A BPA explains the rules surrounding the finances of the partnership. This could include details on how to handle contributions, withdrawals, financial reporting, and the profit and loss distribution.

### Interconnection Security Agreement 02:47-03:09

Another important document is the Interconnection Security Agreement, or ISA. The ISA documents how the information systems of both organizations will connect and how they're going to share data. The ISA is more technical in nature. The SLA and the MOU define the relationship, whereas the BPA and the ISA specify how the project work is going to take place.

### Ongoing Operations Phase 03:09-04:00

When onboarding is complete, you can start conducting business according to the terms of the agreement. During the ongoing operations phase, you'll want to keep any eye on several things. First, regularly verify compliance with the interoperability agreement documents. Make sure that each organization is doing what it said it would do.

In addition, conduct periodic vulnerability assessments to verify that the shared network connections have not exposed or created some type of security weakness. You should also conduct regular security audits to ensure that organizations are following the security requirements contained in the interoperability agreement.

Communication between the organizations is critical. Share the vulnerability assessment and security audit findings with everyone involved in the relationship in order to maintain risk awareness.

### Offboarding Phase 04:00-04:19

When the operations phase is complete and you've reached the end of your agreement, you're ready to end the relationship. This process is called offboarding. Although this is an important phase, it's probably the most neglected. During offboarding, you want to ensure that all the security doors you opened to facilitate the relationship are closed.

### Offboarding Phase 04:19-05:04

From a technical standpoint, you'll want to reset or disable any open or shared connections that you may have with the third party. This could include VPNs, firewalls, or routers and switches that were set up to share information from your network.

In addition, disable any domain trust relationships established between the organizations. Disable any user or group accounts used by third parties to access your organization's data. Finally, reset passwords used by the third party to access applications on your network.

Leaving any of these doors open could potentially expose the information on your network. During the offboarding process, you'll also want to revisit the NDA, and you'll want to put all of your end-of-business agreements into a written format.

### Summary 05:04-05:27

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we talked about managing third parties. We looked at the onboarding phase and the various documents commonly used. We talked about the ongoing operations phase of the relationship, and we discussed considerations for the offboarding phase to ensure that access to your system ends with the relationship.

## 13.1.4 Managing Third Parties Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Third-party relationships
   </li>
   <li>
    Onboarding
   </li>
   <li>
    Daily operations
   </li>
   <li>
    Offboarding
   </li>
</ul>

### Third-Party Relationships

In the modern business world, it’s very common for one organization to work directly with a third party in one of the following ways:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Relationship
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Vendor
    </td>
    <td>
     A vendor is a company that sells a organization's goods or provides supplies an organization
        needs.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Supply chain
    </td>
    <td>
     Supply chain relationships are collaborative relationships in which companies work together to achieve
        their operational objectives.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Business partner
    </td>
    <td>
     A business partnership is an agreement between parties to operate a business together and to share its
        profits.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

These relationships frequently require the information systems used by each party to connect and integrate. Doing so exposes each network to risks. Before entering into a relationship, take the steps needed to ensure the security of each party's network. Similar to an employment agreement, pay careful attention to the onboarding phase, the ongoing operations phase, and the offboarding phase.

### Onboarding

During the onboarding phase of a relationship, consider the following issues and formulate a plan to address them:

<ul>
   <li>
    Compare your organization's security policies and infrastructure against each partner organization's policies and
      infrastructure, then answer the following questions:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Are the security policies for each organization similar, or are there significant differences between them?
     </li>
     <li>
      Do both organizations have similar incident response procedures or are there differences in how incidents will be
        handled by each party?
     </li>
     <li>
      Are the security controls used by each party similar, or are there differences?
     </li>
     <li>
      Are both organizations' audit policies similar, or are there significant differences between them?
     </li>
     <li>
      Is the security posture of each party compatible enough to work together, or will the integration expose
        vulnerabilities?
     </li>
     <li>
      Identify the risks associated with entering into this relationship.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Identify how data ownership will be determined. Will ownership be based on the storage location, or will it be determined
      by patent, trademark, copyright, or contract law?
   </li>
   <li>
    Identify who will be responsible for protecting data. Who will be responsible for performing data backups? Will
      redundancy be used to ensure high availability?
   </li>
   <li>
    Identify how privacy will be protected. If the data involved in the relationship contains personally-identifying
      information (PII). Can information classification labels be used to protect this type of data?
   </li>
   <li>
    Identify how data will be shared. In most relationships, only a limited subset of data needs to be shared between
      parties. The rest of each organization's data must remain protected. How will unauthorized data sharing be prevented? If
      unauthorized data sharing occurs, how will it be detected?
   </li>
</ul>

Before entering into a third-party agreement, all aspects of the relationship must be agreed upon in writing. To accomplish this, most organizations use an Interoperability Agreement (IA). Several key documents may be included within an IA:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Document
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Service Level Agreement
     <br>
     (SLA)
    </td>
    <td>
     A Service Level Agreement specifies the services performed by the third party and what level of
        performance is guaranteed. An SLA may also define how disputes will be managed, the warranties provided, specific disaster
        recovery procedures, and when the agreement will be terminated.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Blanket Purchase Order
     <br>
     (BPO)
    </td>
    <td>
     A Blanket Purchase Order or Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) is an agreement with a third-party vendor
        to provide services on an ongoing basis. BPOs are typically negotiated to take advantage of a preset discounted pricing
        structure.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Memorandum of Understanding
     <br>
     (MOU)
    </td>
    <td>
     A Memorandum of Understanding is a document that provides a summary of which party in the relationship
        is responsible for performing specific tasks. In other words, the MOU specifies who is going to do what, and when they will
        do it.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Interconnection Security Agreement
     <br>
     (ISA)
    </td>
    <td>
     An Interconnection Security Agreement documents how the information systems of each party in the
        relationship will be connected and how they will share data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Non-disclosure Agreement
     <br>
     (NDA)
    </td>
    <td>
     A Non-disclosure Agreement is a contract in which the third party agrees not to share any of the
        information gathered during the completion of the work.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Measurement System Analysis
     <br>
     (MSA)
    </td>
    <td>
     A Measurement System Analysis states the measurements to be used for determining the quality and
        effectiveness of provided services.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Daily Operations

During the ongoing operations phase of the relationship, observe the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Regularly verify compliance with the IA documents.
   </li>
   <li>
    Conduct periodic vulnerability assessments to verify that the network interconnections created by the relationship have
      not exposed or created security weaknesses.
   </li>
   <li>
    Conduct regular security audits to ensure that each party in the relationship is following the security-related aspects
      of the IA documents.
   </li>
   <li>
    Communicate vulnerability assessment and security audit findings with all of the parties in the relationship to maintain
      risk awareness.
   </li>
</ul>

### Offboarding

When the relationship with the third party ends, ensure that doors that were opened between organizations during the onboarding phase are closed. Consider the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Create an End of Life (EOL) document at the end of a business relationship. It reviews the purpose of the original
      contract, the date of the contract start and end, and any obligations related to the end of the relationship.
   </li>
   <li>
    Create an End of Service (EOS) letter when things do not work out with the third party. The letter reviews the purpose
      for the original contract, the date the contract started, the date the contract is being terminated, the reason for
      terminating the document, and any obligations related to the termination.
   </li>
   <li>
    Reset or disable any VPN, firewall, router, or switch configurations that allowed access to your network from the
      third-party network.
   </li>
   <li>
    Disable any domain trust relationships that were established between the organizations.
   </li>
   <li>
    Disable any user and group accounts used by a third party to access your organization's data.
   </li>
   <li>
    Reset any passwords used by the third party to access data or applications on your network.
   </li>
</ul>

## 13.1.5 Data Protection and Policies

### Data Protection and Policies 00:00-00:16

In this lesson, I'm going to talk about data protection and policies. Data is a critical asset to all organizations, which must put specific policies in place for data creation, storage, and sharing.

### Data Retention Policies 00:16-01:02

One important data protection aspect is data retention. Data retention policies define how to organize, maintain, and archive data. They also outline how and when to dispose of information. Different data types must be legally retained for different lengths of time, depending on relevant regulations. Most data retention policies also address how to handle information involved in litigation.

When you're creating a data retention policy, you need to identify the various data types your organization uses. Develop a policy that defines how long each data type should be retained as well as how they should be destroyed when the retention time expires. It's important to record this information in a policy that's clearly written. Having a written policy and ensuring that everyone in the organization follows it helps to protect you from evidence tampering accusations.

### Data Retention Considerations 01:02-01:26

Adhering to your data retention policy protects both you and your organization. You should never allow selective or arbitrary information destruction, which could make it appear as though you're trying to hide evidence and could lead to criminal charges.

Never destroy information after it's been subpoenaed or if you have reason to believe that it may be subpoenaed in the future. Evidence destruction and obstruction of justice are serious crimes that can result in imprisonment.

### Data Retention Rules Examples 01:26-02:23

With this in mind, let's take a look at some examples of data retention rules. These rules aren't necessarily the ones that you'll use, but I'll go over them to give you ideas on how you can formulate your own policies.

Email inboxes can pile up quickly, so the first rule could state that all email messages are to be deleted after 90 days.

The IRS defines guidelines for maintaining tax records. To ensure compliance, you could say that your policy is to keep company tax records for seven years and employee tax records for four. After that time, they're to be shredded.

When it comes to employee HR records, a good rule of thumb is to keep them for three to four years.

You might see fit to hold onto all employee-created research and design documents to prove their ownership. So for the next rule, let's say the policy is to keep any integral research, design, or patent documents for 25 years.

Next, are vendor contracts, service-level agreements, and other types of contractual documents. A good practice is to keep these until five years after a contract has ended.

### Classification Labels 02:23-02:43

After you create your written data retention policy, consider using information classification labels to identify which retention policy rules apply to which pieces of data. This allows you to automate the data retention and destruction process. Without classification labels, it's an extremely tedious process to try to manage decades-long data records.

### Data Retention Policy Benefits 02:43-03:20

Having a solid data retention policy has a lot of benefits. First, it reduces the discovery-request cost in the event of legal action against your organization. Responding to discovery requests can be time consuming and costly. You significantly minimize your discovery costs if all your old, irrelevant material has already been destroyed. Second, it reduces exposure during the discovery process. By minimizing the amount of electronic material that your organization keeps on hand, you also reduce the amount of information that could potentially expose your organization to litigation. Third, it lowers the hardware and software requirements for storing old data and minimizes clutter.

### Summary 03:20-03:39

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about data protection and how to create data retention policies for your organization. We also talked about what specifically a data retention policy is and the good practices you should follow when creating one.

## 13.1.6 Data Protection and Policies Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Data retention policies
- Benefits of data retention policies
- Data retention best practices

### Data Retention Policies

Data retention policies define how information in your possession is maintained and for how long. The key point to remember is that different types of data must be retained for different lengths of time based on legal and business requirements.

Data retention policies also typically describe procedures for:

<ul>
   <li>
    Archiving information
   </li>
   <li>
    Destroying information when the retention limit is reached
   </li>
   <li>
    Handling information involved in litigation
   </li>
</ul>

Review all of the different types of information used in your organization and develop a policy that defines how long different types of data are retained and destroyed when the retention period is passed. Record this information in a clearly written policy, and never allow selective or arbitrary information destruction. It might make it appear that you are trying to hide evidence and could expose you to potential criminal charges.

### Benefits of Data Retention Policies

Having a written policy and ensuring everyone in the organization follows it protects you from accusations of destroying evidence. Adhering to your data retention and destruction policy protects you and your organization.

Other benefits of implementing a data retention policy include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Reduced cost of discovery requests in the event of legal action. Responding to discovery requests can be time consuming and costly. If old material has been destroyed, discovery costs are minimized.
   </li>
   <li>
    Reduced exposure during discovery. Minimizing the amount of electronic material an organization keeps reduces the amount of information that could expose an organization to potential litigation.
   </li>
   <li>
    Reduced hardware and software requirements for storing old data.
   </li>
</ul>

### Data Retention Best Practices

Some best practices include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Delete email messages after 90 days.
   </li>
   <li>
    Keep tax-related information for seven years. This timeframe should be defined by the applicable taxation authority. For example, the United States Internal Revenue Service requires tax information to be retained for seven years.
   </li>
   <li>
    Keep employee records for four years after an employee leaves the organization.
   </li>
   <li>
    Keep integral research, design, or patent documents for 25 years.
   </li>
   <li>
    Keep contracts with vendors and partners for five years after a contract has ended.
   </li>
   <li>
    Delete employee files after one year.
   </li>
   <li>
    All information should be destroyed before being disposed of. Simply deleting files can leave sensitive information behind.
   </li>
   <li>
    After creating your written data retention policy, use information classification labels to identify which retention policy rule is to be applied to specific data. Using classification labels allows you to use software tools to automate the data retention and destruction process.
   </li>
</ul>

## 13.1.7 Credential and Organizational Policies

### Credential and Organizational Policies 00:00-00:15

In this lesson, we're going to look at a few policies that are important for any organization: change management policies, change control policies, asset management policies, and credential policies.

### Change Management Policy 00:15-01:05

Changes are part of every business, especially in the fast-based technology sector. A change management policy provides a process for implementing necessary changes to a network or system. This policy should be formalized and fully documented. The purpose of a change management policy is to ensure that changes are implemented quickly and efficiently and that there aren't any unnecessary interruptions in service.

All change management policies should include an implementation plan, a timeline for all changes, a plan for communication, a test plan, and a rollback plan. A rollback makes it possible to revert the system back to the state it was in before the change was made.

Change management policies are beneficial because they help an organization understand what's actually needed, the impact of the proposed changes, how to manage their cost, and how to reduce the time it takes to implement the change.

### Change Control 01:05-01:53

All of these aspects are managed through a change control process. Change control is a standardized approach to managing changes made to software within your organization.

These policies provide guidelines and procedures that should be followed any time you modify existing applications, implement new applications, remove old applications, or upgrade existing software.

Change control policies are beneficial because they help to streamline any changes made to new or existing software, reduce risk associated with these changes, and provide awareness of the consequences of an outage. Because all software products must adhere to the organization's policies, laws, and contractual obligations, organizational policies should define the quality of service expected for coding practice and should ensure that security practices are integrated.

### Asset Management Policies 01:53-02:26

Next, let's look at asset management policies. These policies define how hardware and software assets should be managed and maintained. They should cover how to receive, label, record, and physically secure all hardware. They should also include information on how to track licensing, manage versions, and handle upgrades for software assets.

The benefits of asset management policies include optimized assets, compliance with regulations and audit requirements, reductions in hardware and software costs, and easy accessibility to information needed for service and maintenance.

### Credential Policies 02:26-03:11

Lastly, let's look at credential policies. A credential policy identifies guidelines for accessing network or system resources. Credential policies standardize requirements for user accounts and device access. Rules may include password requirements , such as required length of password, use of special

characters, or restrictions on previously used passwords. They might include account lockouts – how many attempts before lockout, how long the lockout lasts, or what needs to happen before the account can be unlocked. And they might include credential expiration–how many days before a credential will expire. Because not all user accounts should have the same policy restrictions, you should have separate credential policies for your personnel, third-party users, service accounts, and administrator accounts.

### Summary 03:11-03:25

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we discussed credential and organizational policies and how they can help streamline processes and reduce risk within an organization.

## 13.1.8 Credential and Organizational Policies Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Change-management policies
   </li>
   <li>
    Change-control policies
   </li>
   <li>
    Credential policies
   </li>
</ul>

### Change-Management Policies

The steps involved in implementing a policy change in an organization could include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Identifying the need for a change, documenting it, and submitting a change request for approval. The approval process should be defined as well.
   </li>
   <li>
    Conducting a feasibility analysis that includes technical and budgetary considerations. It should also identify any potential impacts on the security of the network.
   </li>
   <li>
    Designing a method for implementing the change.
   </li>
   <li>
    Notifying all affected parties of the pending change.
   </li>
   <li>
    Implementing the change. This includes identifying a maintenance window during which the system will be unavailable. This is sometimes referred to as authorized downtime.
   </li>
   <li>
    Testing the implementation to make sure it conforms to the plan and that the change doesn't negatively affect the confidentiality, integrity, and accessibility of your IT infrastructure.
   </li>
   <li>
    Documenting the change. Documenting changes allows you to see the history of changes and can be a valuable tool for troubleshooting. For example, if the change includes new hardware, you’d want to document all IP addresses, MAC addresses, locations, manufacturers, and model numbers.
   </li>
</ul>

Change-management policies are helpful to an organization because they do the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Help to understand what’s needed
   </li>
   <li>
    Help to understand the impact of the proposed changes
   </li>
   <li>
    Help to manage the cost of the change
   </li>
   <li>
    Reduce the time needed to implement the change
   </li>
</ul>

### Change-Control Policies

Change control is a standardized approach to managing any changes that are made at any time a production system is altered. This includes modifications of existing applications, implementation of new applications, removal of old applications, and upgrading or patching software. Change-control management is very similar to application development in its processes. Properly documenting and executing the change-control process is essential for changes to be effective and seamless. Change-control policies are beneficial because they:

<ul>
   <li>
    Help to streamline any changes made to new or existing software
   </li>
   <li>
    Help to reduce the risk associated with these changes
   </li>
   <li>
    Provide awareness to the consequences of an outage
   </li>
</ul>

The general steps in the process that should be considered are:

<ol type="1">
   <li>
    Recognize a need.
   </li>
   <li>
    Submit a request. This step can be best documented with a change request form.
   </li>
   <li>
    Start a feasibility analysis that includes technical feasibility, cost justification, and a security review.
   </li>
   <li>
    Document the change plan.
   </li>
   <li>
    Approach management for approval.
   </li>
   <li>
    Submit the change plan to developers. Developers then perform the coding for the change.
   </li>
   <li>
    Test the change for conformance to the plan and security practices.
   </li>
   <li>
    Document the change.
   </li>
   <li>
    Release the new revision to production through the librarian.
   </li>
</ol>

### Credential Policies

A credential policy identifies guidelines for accessing network or system resources. Credential policies standardize requirements for user accounts and can also refer to device access. Rules may include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Password requirements, such as required length of a password, use 
		of special characters, or restrictions on previously used passwords
   </li>
   <li>
    Account lockouts, such as how many attempts before a lockout, how 
		long the lockout lasts, what needs to happen before the account can be 
		unlocked
   </li>
   <li>
    Credential expiration, such as how many days before a credential expires
   </li>
</ul>
