---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 13.3 Email
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How does spam filtering help end users?
    </li>
    <li>
     In what format are emails sent?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to add multiple layers of security?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why would you encrypt email coming only from outside your network?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is S/MIME?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference between POP3 and IMAP?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Protect a client from spam.
    </li>
    <li>
     Secure an email server.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure email filters.
    </li>
    <li>
     Secure email on an iPad.
    </li>
</ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Spam
    </td>
    <td>
     Unwanted and unsolicited email usually sent to many recipients.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     SMTP relay
    </td>
    <td>
     An email server that accepts mail and forwards it to other mail servers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Phishing email
    </td>
    <td>
     A fraudulent email claiming to be from a trusted organization. The email typically asks a user to
        verify personal information or send money.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     3.0 Host and Application Defense
     <p>
      3.2 Implement Application Defenses
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Spam
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      1.5. Explain different threat actors, vectors, and intelligence sources.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Email
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      3.1 Given a scenario, implement secure protocols.
      </p><ul>
       <li>
        Use cases
        <ul>
         <li>
          Email and web
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       3.9 Given a scenario, implement public key infrastructure.
       </p><ul>
        <li>
         Types of certificates
         <ul>
          <li>
           Email
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
       <p>
        4.3 Given an incident, utilize appropriate data sources to support an investigation.
       </p>
       <ul>
        <li>
         Metadata
         <ul>
          <li>
           Email
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
      <p></p>
     <p></p>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 13.3.1 Email Security

### Email Security 00:00-00:17

Email security is a big issue for IT professionals. Spam, viruses, malware, social engineering all use email as the vehicle to carry out an attack. In addition, a lot of sensitive information is sent via email.

### Email Security Gateway 00:17-01:15

In this lesson, we're going to talk about the steps you should take to properly secure email communications and reduce the risk of email exploits. Let's start by looking at a comprehensive email security solution called an email security gateway.

An email security gateway is a security solution that monitors emails that are sent to or originate from an organization. An email security gateway can be software-, hardware-, or cloud-based. There are even some virtualized email security gateways that function on a hypervisor.

Hardware-based gateways are typically installed in a server room and are configured to have all email messages routed through the device. Software- or cloud-based gateways function in the same way by routing email messages through the service.

Depending on the solution, an email security gateway can offer things like spam protection, malware and virus scanning, email encryption, and even data loss prevention. Let's take a look at some of the features that most email security gateways offer.

### Spam Filtering 01:15-02:07

Spam filtering is offered by a lot of gateways. As its name suggests, spam filtering is to filter out certain types of email. The filter will try to filter out unwanted or unsolicited emails and prevent them from arriving to the end users.

Spam filters use various methods in order to identify spam. Some services even use lists that are continually updated with known spammers and automatically block anything from those emails or domains.

One thing to know about spam filters is that they are far from perfect—"they are not a silver bullet. In fact, fine-tuning a spam filter is a never-ending process. Spammers are constantly finding ways to trick spam filters in order to get emails through and sometimes legitimate emails will be flagged and blocked by the filtering device. However, the benefits of using a spam filter far outweigh the time it takes to configure one.

### DLP 02:07-03:13

Another feature provided by a lot of email security gateways is that of data loss prevention, or DLP.

Gateways that employ DLP scan all outgoing emails for sensitive information. Both the message body and attachments are scanned and if sensitive information is found, the email will be blocked. If desired, a notification can also be sent to the sender or system administrator.

For example, let's say an employee—"either accidently or purposely—"sends an email that contains a customer's credit card information to a personal email address. When the email is sent, it is filtered through the email gateway where it is scanned by the DLP feature. Because the email contains sensitive information, the gateway blocks the email from being sent outside the network. The gateway then notifies the employee that their email was blocked and that the system administrator has been notified.

Just like a spam filter, a DLP solution isn't prefect. Its success depends entirely on how advanced the scanning algorithm is and how well the gateway was configured. Because of this, it's important you understand how to properly configure DLP on a gateway.

### Email Encryption 03:13-05:41

The next email security gateway feature we'll look at is encryption.

Remember, email sent over the internet isn't very secure. Emails can be intercepted by someone with the right know how. And because email messages aren't encrypted by default, they can be easily read. To protect against this, you can use email encryption as a standalone or as part of an email security gateway.

As its name suggests, email encryption encrypts the entire contents of an email and, in some cases, will digitally sign the email with a certificate. This certificate is similar to SSL certificates in that they provide a form of identity verification. Email encryption can be configured in a few different ways.

One way is to encrypt all email communications, regardless of destination. Doing this does provide the most protection; however, encrypting and decrypting emails requires a lot of resources. And if hundreds or even thousands of emails are being sent a day, this might not be feasible.

Another option is to only encrypt emails that are being sent outside the internal network. With this method, that funny cat video you email to Rick in accounting won't be encrypted, but the contract document you send to your client will be.

Now, even if you only encrypt outgoing emails, this encryption and decryption can still become a resource bottleneck. Luckily, some security gateways offer selective encryption. With this option, outgoing emails are scanned in a similar way that a DLP solution scans emails. If sensitive information is found, then the email is encrypted before its sent. If no sensitive information is found, then the email is sent unencrypted.

Now, this encryption and digital signing can be done using several different encryption protocols, such as PGP, GPG, or TLS. However, the most common and widely accepted protocol for email encryption is the S/MIME protocol, which stands for Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions. The important thing to understand about S/MIME is that it requires the use of a public key certificate in order to encrypt and decrypt email messages. This certificate can either be self-signed or purchased from a public CA, but it is required.

Typically, two certificates are used: one for encrypting the email and another for digitally signing the email. Digitally signing the email ensures that only the intended recipient is able to decrypt the email message and also verifies that the email originated from a trusted source.

### Secure POP/IMAP 05:41-06:08

In addition to using an email security gateway, you can also further secure email communications by ensuring you are using the latest email protocols.

Whether you are using POP or IMAP, make sure to use the latest version of the protocol. In addition, both of these protocols support the use of SSL/TLS in order to create a secure tunnel when connecting to an email server. One way to do this is to use a Microsoft Exchange server and enable secure POP or secure IMAP communication.

### Summary 06:08-06:31

Proper email security is an extremely important aspect of network security. Emails can be a vehicle for countless attacks and exploits. As such, you need to make sure you take the appropriate steps in order to properly secure your organizations email communications and prevent email-driven attacks.

## 13.3.2 Email Security Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Email threats
- Email security

### Email Threats

To secure email, you must be aware of the following email attacks.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Attack
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Virus
    </td>
    <td>
     A virus is malware that often uses email as its distribution mechanism. Users receive the virus as an attachment and then activate the virus by clicking on that 
		attachment. To mitigate viruses, you should install antivirus software 
		on every system, and install antivirus software on the email server to scan attachments. 
		A best practice is to detect viruses and messages on the email server before it gets to the client and send warnings to the recipient about the malicious email.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Spam
    </td>
    <td>
     Spam is unwanted and unsolicited email sent to many recipients. Spam 
		consists of the following attributes:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Can be as benign as emails trying to sell products
      </li>
      <li>
       Can be malicious and contain phishing content, drive-by downloads, or malware
      </li>
      <li>
       Can contain malware as attachments
      </li>
      <li>
       Wastes bandwidth and could fill the inbox, resulting in a denial-of-service condition
      </li>
     </ul>
     To control spam:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Enable spam filters on the client and email servers. Filter junk email by identifying safe senders (whitelists), blocked senders (blacklists), countries to block email from, and languages to block.
      </li>
      <li>
       Enable antivirus scanning for attachments on the client and email servers.
      </li>
      <li>
       In the email client, disable preview screens. An email can have links for active items that can report back to the spammer.
      </li>
      <li>
       Don't click on an unsubscribe link at the bottom of an unsolicited email. Doing this verifies to the spammer that the email address is a current and active email address. Only unsubscribe from trusted organizations.
      </li>
      <li>
       Install server-level anti-spam software on the email server.
      </li>
      <li>
       Don't post your full email address anywhere on the web. Spammers use software to scan websites to find email addresses and then add them to their email lists for spamming.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Open SMTP relay
    </td>
    <td>
     An SMTP relay is an email server that accepts mail and forwards it to other mail servers. An open SMTP relay allows anyone to forward mail.
     <ul>
      <li>
       If your mail server is an open SMTP relay, it can be used by spammers to send mail. Spammers use your relay to obscure the actual source of the email.
      </li>
      <li>
       A repudiation attack is an attack on open relays in which the attacker accesses your email server and sends spoofed emails to others, making them appear as if they came from you.
      </li>
      <li>
       If spammers use your relay for sending mail, your server will soon be placed on a blacklist. Other mail servers then stop receiving any mail (even legitimate mail) sent from your servers.
      </li>
      <li>
       As a best practice:
       <ul>
        <li>
         Configure your mail server to accept mail only from authenticated users or specific email servers that you authorize.
        </li>
        <li>
         Require TLS encryption to connect to the server.
        </li>
        <li>
         Implement restrictions for accessing the server and relaying email for your environment if feasible.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Phishing
    </td>
    <td>
     A phishing email is an email pretending to be from a trusted organization 
		that asks to verify personal information or send money. In a phishing attack:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A fraudulent message (that appears to be legitimate) is sent to a target.
      </li>
      <li>
       The message requests that the target visit a fraudulent website (which also appears to be legitimate). Graphics, links, and web pages look almost identical to the legitimate requests and websites the attacker tries to represent.
      </li>
      <li>
       The fraudulent website requests that the victim provide sensitive information, such as the account number and password.
      </li>
     </ul>
     To protect against phishing:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Check the email header information to see more info about the sender and the links that are in the email.
      </li>
      <li>
       Only open emails if you recognize the sender.
      </li>
      <li>
       Check the actual link destination within emails to verify that they go to the correct URL and not a spoofed one.
      </li>
      <li>
       Do not click on links in emails. Instead, type the real URL into the browser. You could also look up the website in a search engine.
      </li>
      <li>
       Verify that HTTPS is used when going to e-commerce sites. HTTPS requires a certificate that matches the server name in the URL that is verified by a trusted CA. You can also look for the lock icon to verify that HTTPS is used.
      </li>
      <li>
       Implement phishing protections within your browser.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Email Security

Email is cleartext by default. To secure email, use either Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (S/MIME) or Pretty Good Privacy (PGP).

<ul>
   <li>
    Both solutions use certificates to provide authentication, message integrity, non-repudiation (through digital signatures), and privacy (encryption).
   </li>
   <li>
    Certificates are bound (associated) with an email address.
   </li>
   <li>
    To prove who has sent an email, a digital signature is added to it using the sender's private key. Only the sender who has the private key could have sent the message.
   </li>
   <li>
    To encrypt email, the message is encrypted using the recipient's public key. Only the recipient who has the private key can decrypt the message. Before you send an encrypted email to someone, you must first obtain their public key, which is normally done by having them send you a signed email.
   </li>
   <li>
    S/MIME uses certificates issued by either public or in-house CAs using the X.509 system.
   </li>
   <li>
    PGP uses two methods for validating certificates:
    <ul>
     <li>
      With a web of trust, individual users decide which certificates they trust. Users can then trust other designated users to introduce or recommend additional trusted users.
     </li>
     <li>
      With trust signatures, digital signatures from certain certificates are trusted as being able to sign other keys. Trust signatures create a hierarchy similar to that of 
		Certificate Authorities.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Both S/MIME and PGP are used primarily for email encryption, although PGP can also be used for encryption of phone calls and whole disk encryption.
   </li>
</ul>

## 13.3.3 Protecting a Client from Spam

### Protecting a Client from Spam 00:00-00:17

In this demo, we're going to talk about protecting a client from spam. We're going to look at spam settings in two email services. One is Gmail, and we're going to access it through a web browser. The other is the Outlook web mail client.

### Gmail 00:17-01:27

Let's start with Gmail. I already have my browser open, and I've logged into Gmail. It has a few functions that are set up automatically to help you organize and sort out types of email, especially spam.

When I come down here and select this email, I get some options, including Report Spam. If I select that, it'll be moved to my Spam folder, and all emails coming from this address will be marked as spam. I'll undo that for this email.

Another thing I can do is right-click and look at some more options. A better choice for this email might be to label it Promotions rather than Spam. Now let's click on the Promotions tab and see what's in there. I see several emails, many already sorted for me. If I right-click again, I can see, under Label As, that it's labeled Promotions.

Let's look at the contents of our Spam Folder. If I click on it, we can see several emails in there. If you find some emails in here that aren't spam, you can select them and then click Not Spam. All emails in this folder are deleted 30 days after they arrive.

Now let's look at the settings. Here, you'll find Filters and Blocked Addresses. Down here, you'll find the email addresses you've previously blocked. These emails are marked as spam. If, for some reason you need to change that, this is where you do it.

### Outlook 01:27-03:51

Now let's look at another web-based email client, Outlook. I'm already in Outlook, and here's my inbox. I have one email down here. Let's select it. I have a tab up here called Junk. When I click on it, I get a dropdown, and I have a few choices: Junk, Phishing, and Block. Let's click each of these for more information.

First, I'll click on Junk. This will add this email to the list of Spam mail senders. I can change my mind and click Undo. Next, click on Phishing. When we do that, this email is reported as a Phishing email to Microsoft so they can better detect these on their end. This isn't a Phishing email, so I'll click the Don't Report button.

The third option is Block. This won't report the email, but maybe it's just one that I don't care to receive any longer, and unsubscribing doesn't help. Once again, I'll cancel and not really block the email.

Let's take a look at the Junk Email folder. I have two emails in here that aren't junk, so I'll tell Outlook that, and they'll go back to my inbox. I'll do that for both emails. Now, if I look at my inbox, both emails are there.

Let's look at our settings in Outlook. I'll click on the Junk Email option here. Let's look at our options. We can block senders or entire domains from sending you email. I click on Add, and I can put in an email address or a domain that I want to block. Or maybe a sender is getting labeled as spam, but it isn't spam. If that's the case, I can add those emails and domains here, under the Safe senders and domains list. The last one here is Safe mailing lists. For example, I'm a member of several mail lists related to tech, and many spam filters mark them as spam. I can enter them here to make sure that doesn't happen.

At the bottom of the page, we have a couple of filters. The first one is to only trust emails from my Safe senders and domains list. This would be pretty restrictive and take a lot of updating. But if you only want to use this email to communicate with coworkers or family members, this might be a great thing, especially for children or the elderly. The next one will block attachments from anyone not in your Safe senders and domains list. This isn't as restrictive, and it's probably a good way to prevent malware from coming to your mailbox.

Be aware that these are just client settings, and on the server side of things, you probably have even more settings. In addition, ISPs and mail hosts are filtering emails before they even arrive to your client. In general, processes for catching spam have come a long way, but you still have to do some things manually.

### Summary 03:51-04:01

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we configured spam filtering in Gmail and Outlook.

## 13.3.4 Securing an Email Server

### Securing an Email Server 00:00-01:33

In this demonstration, we'll discuss how to prevent spam being relayed off of your email servers. To do this, we've installed an SMTP email service on this Windows Server 2016 system. Let's go to Tools.

We're going to go to the IIS 6.0 Manager. Expand that. Okay. We managed this service using the IIS Manager 6.0. Most email servers currently available will have similar SMTP capabilities and provide the same SMTP options.

Firstly, we can right click on our SMTP server. Go to Properties. From here, we can lock down this email server. We're going to go to the Access tab. On the Access tab, you can require authentication to access this server.

The default is Anonymous Access, meaning anybody can connect without authenticating. You should disable this option and require at least basic authentication.

If you have Anonymous Authentication enabled and if you allow open relay, spammers will quickly find this system and start bouncing spam off your server to cover their tracks. If this happens, you are the one who gets in trouble and your ISP may block or blacklist your email server.

You can also use integrated Windows authentication which would require you to use the domain credentials to authenticate. Basic authentication requires users just to enter a password, but beware that basic authentication is sent cleartext by default, which would expose the password.

### Securing Authentication 01:33-02:38

Alternatively, you can also combine it with TLS encryption, which is the next generation of SSL basically to secure authentication credentials as they are transmitted on the network. You can also require a secure connection to connect to this MTP server in the first place.

This option requires an SSL or TLS certificate for this server to secure the connection. You can also use connection controls to configure who's allowed to connect to this SMTP server and who is blocked from connecting. This can be done using your IP addresses. You can use a range of IPs.

You can also do this using domain names as well. This requires reverse DNS lookups to be enabled. Using this information, you can restrict who is allowed access to the server.

You can also implement relay restrictions, which are used to specify who is allowed to relay email through the SMTP server. You can allow everyone except for those specified on the list or block everyone except for those on the list. As before, you can also specify an IP or IP range or a domain name.

### Summary 02:38-02:53

That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration, we reviewed several security configurations you can implement to prevent email from being relayed off of your SMTP server.

## 13.3.6 Securing Accounts on an iPad

### Secure Accounts on an iPad 00:00-00:44

In this demonstration, we'll show you techniques to secure accounts on an iPad, specifically email and web browsing.

The web browser and email client on a mobile device, as with any computer, represent one of the most serious and most easily attacked vectors into the device.

Just as you need to secure the web browser and email client on a Windows workstation, you need to secure them on mobile devices as well. Let's take a look at some things you can do.

We're currently using an iPad to do this demonstration. For email, one of the key things we can do is use SSL to communicate with the mail server. This includes POP or IMAP servers, as well as the SMTP server. Let's look at how we do that.

### Change Settings 00:44-01:50

Let's go into Settings. We'll scroll up to Passwords & Accounts Then we'll go into this Gmail account. To do that, we tap on the email address to get into the Account settings.

At the bottom, there's an Advanced selection. Tap on Advanced. You can see that we are using SSL to encrypt communications between the mail client on this mobile device and the mail server.

For this to work, the mail server for POP, IMAP, and SMTP, must be configured to support SSL. If it isn't, then turning this on won't accomplish anything.

Remember that POP3, IMAP, and SMTP transmit clear text by default. So, using SSL greatly increases the security of your email communications.

If you're using a mobile device to send email messages to someone through your mail server and you're not using SSL, then any sensitive proprietary information in that email is being transferred in clear text. It could be sniffed and read by almost anyone.

Using SSL sets up an SSL tunnel between the email client and the mail server. The SSL tunnel secures message transmission through that tunnel. It is already enabled here.

### Secure Safari 01:50-04:27

In addition to securing your email account, you also need to secure the web browser on a mobile device. Because we're using an iPad, Safari is the browser. Let's get out of the account and go to Safari Settings.

We can do several things to increase the overall security of the web browser. First, let's look at autofill. Notice that Use Contact Info is on.

To increase security, we'll turn that off. In addition, Credit Cards is also on. We'll also turn that off. This option automatically fills out credit card information. We don't want to do that; so let's keep that off.

Now we'll have to manually fill in contact and credit card information in various web forms. Autofill is a security challenge on a workstation in an office. It's a bigger problem on a mobile device.

Let's look at one more thing. We'll go back up and tap Passwords & Accounts, on the right we might want to turn off AutoFill Passwords. That way if we lose this device, someone can't access sites by having the passwords automatically populated.

We're done with this. Let's go back and go to the main Safari settings. Now we want to look at cookies. Scroll down. As you can see here under Privacy and Security, we have Cookies, and the Block All Cookies option. That's currently, that's turned off. That means that it will not block cookies. Let's turn that on.

When we turn it on, we are asked, "Hey, are you sure you want to block all cookies?" Because if we do, some websites are not going to work and the existing cookies will be removed. Let's tap Block All Cookies, and say goodbye to them.

Let's go back. Now we need to enable Fraudulent Website Warning. This is right below our Block All Cookies. This will warn us if we're visiting a site the browser thinks is a potentially fraudulent website. Right now, you can see it's turned off. Let's turn that on.

If we scroll down and tap Advanced, we can see that JavaScript is currently on. This is one of those issues where you have to balance functionality and security, just like with the cookies. Having JavaScript enabled makes the browser on this device more functional, but it also opens up security issues. The general advice is to disable JavaScript.

There will be sites that don't function properly, however, because it's commonly used in a lot of websites, but it does increase the security of the device. We can turn it off if we want to, so let's select to turn that off.

The last thing we're going to do to secure Safari is to make sure that we're blocking pop-ups. When we look here, we can see Block pop-ups is not currently on.

Let's go ahead and turn that on. That'll stop many of those annoying pop-up windows that are so common on the internet. It will help get rid of any of the annoying ads. Also, we want to prevent drive by downloads from occurring. At this point, the Safari web browser is much more secure than it was.

### Summary 04:27-05:01

In this demo, we talked about things you can do to secure email and the web browser on a mobile device. In this case, an iPad. We configured the POP3 or IMAP and SMTP protocols to secure communications between the web client and the web server using SSL.

Then, we looked at what you can do to secure the Safari web browser on an iPad. We disabled autofill, we restricted cookies, we turned fraud warning on, and we turned JavaScript off. Then, we finished by turning on the pop-up blocker.
