---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 13.2 Risk Management
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Why are disaster recovery policies important for an organization's security?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference in acceptance and mitigation in risk management?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference in qualitative and quantitative risk assessment?
    </li>
    <li>
     How is the annualized rate of occurrence (ARO) calculated?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are examples of external risk types?
    </li>
</ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Asset
    </td>
    <td>
     A resource, owned or controlled by an organization, that has value.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Risk
    </td>
    <td>
     Risk is the probability of a vulnerability being damaged, lost, or exploited. Eliminating or reducing the vulnerability
        reduces the risk.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Residual risk
    </td>
    <td>
     Residual risk is the portion of risk that remains after the implementation of a countermeasure.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Intangible asset
    </td>
    <td>
     An intangible asset is a resource that has value and may be saleable even though it is not physical or
        material. Intangible assets are typically more challenging to identify and evaluate.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Tangible asset
    </td>
    <td>
     A tangible asset is a physical item such as a computer, storage device, or document.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Business continuity
    </td>
    <td>
     Business continuity is the activity performed by an organization to ensure that critical business
        functions are available to customers, suppliers, regulators, and other entities who must have access to those
        functions.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Exam</th>
      <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Objective</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>TestOut Security Pro</td>
      <td>
        4.0 Data Security
        <p>4.1 Protect and Maintain Data Files</p>
        <p>4.2 Implement Encryption Technologies</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>CompTIA Security+ SY0-601</td>
      <td>
        2.1 Explain the importance of security concepts in an enterprise
        environment.
        <ul>
          <li>
            Site resiliency
            <ul>
              <li>Hot site</li>
              <li>Cold site</li>
              <li>Warm site</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
        5.4. Summarize risk management processes and concepts.
        <ul>
          <li>
            Risk types
            <ul>
              <li>External</li>
              <li>Internal</li>
              <li>Legacy systems</li>
              <li>Multiparty</li>
              <li>IP theft</li>
              <li>Software compliance/licensing</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Risk management strategies
            <ul>
              <li>Acceptance</li>
              <li>Avoidance</li>
              <li>
                Transference
                <ul>
                  <li>Cybersecurity insurance</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Mitigation</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Risk analysis
            <ul>
              <li>Risk register</li>
              <li>Risk matrix/heat map</li>
              <li>Risk control assessment</li>
              <li>Risk control self-assessment</li>
              <li>Risk awareness</li>
              <li>Inherent risk</li>
              <li>Residual risk</li>
              <li>Control risk</li>
              <li>Risk appetite</li>
              <li>Regulations that affect risk posture</li>
              <li>
                Risk assessment types
                <ul>
                  <li>Qualitative</li>
                  <li>Quantitative</li>
                </ul>
              </li>
              <li>Likelihood of occurrence</li>
              <li>Impact</li>
              <li>Asset value</li>
              <li>Single loss expectancy (SLE)</li>
              <li>Annualized loss expectancy (ALE)</li>
              <li>Annualized rate of occurrence (ARO)</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Disasters
            <ul>
              <li>Environmental</li>
              <li>Man-made</li>
              <li>Internal vs. external</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
            Business impact analysis
            <ul>
              <li>Recovery time objective (RTO)</li>
              <li>Recovery point objective (RPO)</li>
              <li>Mean time to repair (MTTR)</li>
              <li>Mean time between failures (MTBF)</li>
              <li>Functional recovery plans</li>
              <li>Single point of failure</li>
              <li>Disaster recovery plan (DRP)</li>
              <li>Mission essential functions</li>
              <li>Identification of critical systems</li>
              <li>Site risk assessment</li>
            </ul>
          </li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## 13.2.1 Risk Types and Tolerance

### Risk Types and Tolerance 00:00-00:44

Risk management is the process of identifying vulnerabilities and threats, and then deciding on countermeasures to reduce the risk to an acceptable level. In other words, risk management is when a person or group considers worst-case scenarios and determines just how bad those scenarios would be for their organization. Senior management is ultimately responsible for residual risk, which is what remains after taking risk-reduction measures.

This all might sound kind of depressing. But it's actually pretty liberating because you can feel secure knowing that you've thought through all possible problems. It's kind of like insurance. No one wants bad stuff to happen, but you invest in an insurance policy so that you can have peace of mind that if something does happen, you'll be ready.

### Asset Identification 00:44-01:28

The first step in risk management is to identify your organization's assets and how much each asset is worth. You want to pay special attention to assets that are critical for your business to function. You should place values on all assets, including the cost of lost data, failed systems, downtime, and training new employees.

Assets include physical items like computers and storage devices. These items are usually purchased, and so it's fairly easy to place a value on them. But it becomes a bit harder to place a value on an intangible asset like computer data or a seasoned employee's knowledge. While a computer can be easily replaced, the data itself is possibly far more valuable in the end. It's difficult to assign values to things like that, but it's important to attempt to.

### Risk Identification 01:28-01:51

After you've identified your assets, you should then identify possible asset threats, which can be internal or external. Internal threats come from within your organization and could include employee fraud, theft, system failure, sabotage, espionage, collusion, or snooping.

External threats are things like fire, water damage, burglars, internet attacks, market competition, or natural disasters.

### Risk Analysis 01:51-02:18

Let's talk about risk analysis. Risk analysis is the practice of assessing which risks you've identified to be the most relevant to the organization. This is a key part of the risk management process. Risk assessment determines quantitative and qualitative risk values as they relate to a particular threat. As a best practice, we try to create risk assessments using quantitative measurements, which require us to assign a number value to each identified risk.

### Risk Evaluation 02:18-02:29

You should also evaluate your risks. This means determining if and when action should be taken in a worst-cast scenario. You would use this during the analysis phase to determine each risk's tolerability.

### Risk Management Strategies 02:29-04:25

Finally, once all risks have been identified and assessed, their management falls into one of four categories: avoidance, transference, mitigation, and acceptance. Avoidance is the decision to avoid the risk altogether. In other words, you choose not to engage in an activity because the risk is too high.

Transference involves transferring the risk to someone else. Many organizations have opted to outsource their networking, security, and storage solutions. Doing so helps to transfer a bit of the risk to companies that are better prepared for potential threats. As businesses dependence on technology continues to grow, so does their cyber risk. Another way businesses help prepare for a potentially catastrophic loss is to take out cybersecurity insurance. As with most insurance policies, this protects against events that would have a big financial impact should they occur.

Mitigation is also an option. You could reduce a potential threat's risk by deploying security controls or other protections. An administrative control is an actionable procedure that should be followed to reduce risk. A technical control is a device that's used for this very purpose. For example, you could configure system redundancy so that if the original system were to go down, the redundant system could take over and continue providing services. Organizations should perform regular risk-control assessments to ensure that these controls continue to be effective.

Sometimes, organizations opt to accept a risk because the associated cost is acceptable, or the cost to protect the asset is just too high. A risk appetite statement, put simply, is the amount of risk an organization is willing to tolerate in order to reach its objectives. If you do decide to accept a risk, it's important to build response policies around a plausible outcome. Know that in some instances, there might actually be regulations that outline how certain risks must be lawfully handled. In these cases, you want to show that you took all the necessary steps to safeguard against loss. So make sure to study up and consider the guidance of legal counsel.

### Summary 04:25-04:49

That's it for this lesson. In summary, the risk management process is the process for identifying threats and deciding which countermeasures to take to reduce an undesirable outcome. Asset and risk identification as well as risk analysis, evaluation, and management strategies all make up the risk management process.

## 13.2.2 Risk Types and Tolerance Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Asset identification
   </li>
   <li>
    Risk identification
   </li>
   <li>
    Risk analysis
   </li>
   <li>
    Risk response
   </li>
</ul>

### Asset Identification

Asset identification identifies the organization's resources. Asset valuation determines the worth of that resource to the organization. This is important because it establishes the level of protection appropriate for each asset.

When identifying assets and values, be sure to include both tangible and intangible assets.

<ul>
   <li>
    A tangible asset is a physical item such as a computer, storage device, or document. Such items are typically purchased. The valuation of these assets can be easily determined by the cost of replacing the item.
   </li>
   <li>
    An intangible asset is a resource that has value and may be saleable even though it is not physical or material. Intangible assets are typically more challenging to identify and evaluate.
   </li>
</ul>

Assets can have both tangible and intangible components. For example, a computer that functions as a server has a tangible value associated with the replacement cost of the hardware. Intangible assets include the data on the computer, the value of the role that the computer performs within the organization, and what the computer's information is worth to a competitor or an attacker.

---

Risk Identification When identifying threats, consider both external and internal threats. External threats are those events originating outside of the organization that typically focus on compromising the organization's information assets. Examples are hackers, fraud perpetrators, and viruses. Internal threats are intentional or accidental acts by employees, including: Malicious acts such as theft, fraud, or sabotage Intentional or unintentional actions that destroy or alter data Disclosing sensitive information through snooping or espionage Environmental disasters are physical events that can happen over time. These can be a result of physical components such as broken water pipes or can take the form of a natural disaster such as tornadoes, hurricanes, and floods. Legacy systems can create unique risks such as system incompatibility and security vulnerabilities. These risks can be amplified if current employees are not familiar with the systems. Intellectual property (IP) theft is a risk for most organizations and can cause extensive financial and strategic damage. One goal of asset identification and valuation is to prioritize assets based on the seriousness of potential threats and the impact that a loss would have on normal operations. As you plan protection strategies and allocate security resources and budgeting, start with the most critical assets first. Once assets have been identified and a valuation is established, it is important to document procedures relating to these classifications and other security procedures. This documentation should include: What assets need protection. How to store the asset. How to provide access to the asset. How to transfer and move the asset. How to destroy the asset. Risk Analysis After identifying possible sources of threats, the next step is to evaluate the possible risks and to determine if and when risk should be addressed, or if it should be tolerated. Risk analysis is the practice of assessing which risks you identified are most relevant and pressing to the organization. This is a key part of the risk management process. The risk assessment determines quantitative or qualitative values of risk related to a particular asset and a particular threat. As a best practice, try to create risk assessments using quantitative measurements, which require us to assign a number or value to each risk identified. You can use an equation to measure risk quantitatively. Inherent risk is the level of risk that a system has without any controls in place. Inherent risk can be determined by considering what the system is used for, who has access to the system, and how users can access the system. Once controls have been put in place, the residual risk remains. Determining residual risk would involve considering what controls were needed, and which controls had been implemented. Control risk occurs when an organization does not have the needed controls in place. Risk Response After you have identified the risks and their associated costs, you can determine how best to respond to the risk. Responses include: Taking measures to reduce the likelihood of the threat by deploying security controls or other protections. When deploying countermeasures, the annual cost of the countermeasures should not exceed the annualized loss expectancy (ALE). If it does, you are paying more to protect the asset than it is worth. Security control types can be management, operational, or technical. Transferring risk by purchasing insurance to protect the asset. When the incident occurs, the cost of replacing or repairing the asset is covered by insurance. When deciding to transfer the risk, be sure to compare the cost of insurance with the ALE. Purchase the insurance only if its cost is less than the ALE. Accepting the risk and choosing to do nothing. For example, you might decide that the cost associated with a threat is acceptable or that the cost of protecting the asset from the threat is unacceptable. In this case, you would plan for how to recover from the threat but not implement any measures to avoid it. Risk rejection, which is choosing not to respond to the risk even though the risk is not at an acceptable level. Risk rejection introduces the possibility of negligence and may lead to liability. Risk rejection is not an appropriate response. Risk deterrence, which is letting threat agents know of the consequences they face if they choose to attack the asset. This could include posting warnings on login pages to indicate prosecution policies. Consider the following factors when implementing security controls to reduce risk: Compatibility with existing infrastructure Effectiveness Regulatory compliance Organizational policies Operational impact Feasibility Safety and reliability

## 13.2.3 Analyzing Risks

### Analyze Risks 00:00-00:16

In this lesson, we're going to discuss risk analysis. Risk analysis is the practice of determining which identified threats are most pressing to an organization and then attaching a potential cost that can be expected if that threat occurs.

### Calculate Risk 00:16-01:54

There are two general methods for analyzing and calculating risk. Quantitative analysis assigns real numbers to the costs of damages and countermeasures. It also assigns concrete probability percentages to risk occurrence. Qualitative analysis uses scenarios to identify risks and responses. Qualitative analysis is the more subjective of the two.

When calculating quantitatively, you want to consider a risk's impact and likelihood. What kind of damage can be done, and what's the chance of it actually happening? To determine the likelihood of a loss, you might want to use an annualized rate of occurrence, or ARO. An ARO is a collection of data gathered from historical records such as crime statistics, natural disasters, insurance payouts, and cyber incidence records.

To determine a loss's impact, you want to consider all associated costs if an unfortunate scenario were to occur. What would it cost to pay employees during the downtime? What would it cost to replace the impacted hardware or software? Would there be refunds or other costs associated with user retention?

Single loss expectancy, or SLE, is the amount of loss expected for any single successful asset attack. This is a monetary value that describes how much the incident will cost in terms of lost asset value.

Annual loss expectancy, or ALE, estimates the annual loss resulting from an incident. You calculate ALE by multiplying your SLE by your ARO. This tells you how much potential threats cost each year.

For example, if your asset loses $1,000 for each incident, and you expect an incident every four years, the annual cost for that asset would be $250.00.

### Risk Illustration 01:54-02:45

Having a visual representation of risks can help stakeholders make better assessments. A risk register provides details of each known risk, including a risk's category, description, unique identification number, projected impact, likelihood of occurrence, and risk response plan. For better visualization, you could use this information to create a scatter plot that represents each risk's possible impact in relation to its overall probability.

A risk matrix, which is also known as a heat map, illustrates a loss's likelihood and impact. Notice that the colors in this example range from cool to hot. If an occurrence's possibility is rare and its impact moderate, it gets a low rating. If its likelihood is high, but the impact is insignificant, it might end up with a medium rating. And if the impact is severe and the likelihood almost certain, it might receive an extreme rating.

### Summary 02:45-03:01

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed risk analysis. We looked at calculating risks quantitatively and qualitatively, and we discussed a few ways to illustrate our findings.

## 13.2.4 Analyzing Risks Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Risk analysis methods
- Quantitative analysis

### Risk Analysis Methods

Risk analysis is the practice of determining which identified threats are relevant and pressing to the organization. Once identified, each relevant and pressing threat is given a potential cost that may be incurred if the threat occurs. There are two general risk assessment methods:

<ul>
   <li>
    The
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     quantitative analysis
    </i>
    method assigns real numbers to the costs of damages and countermeasures. It also assigns concrete probability percentages to risk occurrence.
   </li>
   <li>
    The
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     qualitative analysis
    </i>
    method uses scenarios to identify risks and responses. Qualitative risk analysis is more speculative (based on opinion) and results in relative costs or rankings.
   </li>
</ul>

The strict quantitative value of the loss is typically not possible. The determination of value must also include qualitative components.

### Quantitative Analysis

Measuring risks quantitatively requires identifying the following components:

<ul>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Single loss expectancy
    </i>
    (SLE) is the amount of loss expected for any single successful threat attack on any given asset. This is a monetary value that describes how much an incident will cost in terms of lost asset value.
   </li>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Exposure factor
    </i>
    is the percentage of the asset lost because of a successful threat attack.
   </li>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Annualized rate of occurrence
    </i>
    (ARO) identifies how often in a single year the successful threat attack will occur. ARO
      information is frequently obtained from insurance companies, law enforcement agencies, and computer incident-monitoring organizations. For example, an ARO of 2 indicates that the incident is expected to occur twice a year, while an ARO of .25 means the incident is expected once every four years.
   </li>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Annual loss expectancy
    </i>
    (ALE) estimates the annual loss resulting from an incident. For example, if you expect a successful attack every four years. The ALE for the incident would be 1/4 of the SLE.
   </li>
</ul>

The quantitative value of risk can be determined with the following calculation: SLE x ARO = ALE. This tells you how much a potential threat costs each year. For example, if the asset loses $1,000 for each incident and you expect an incident every four years, the annual cost for that asset would be $250.

As you attempt to quantify and assess risks, consider creating a risk register early in the risk management process. A risk register provides details of each known risk, including a risk category, description, unique identification number, projected impact, likelihood of occurrence, and risk response plan. This information can be used to create a scatter plot that represents the possible impact of each risk in relation to its overall probability. Having a visual representation of risks can help stakeholders better assess the risks.

## 13.2.5 Business Continuity Planning

### Business Continuity Planning 00:00-00:28

In this video, we're going to discuss business continuity planning. Natural disasters can cause catastrophic failures or extended disruptions--anything from a lightning strike that fries a few hardware components to an earthquake that destroys the entire building. Business continuity planning is the creation and validation of a plan for recovering and restoring an organization's mission-critical functions after a catastrophic disaster or extended disruption.

### Business Impact Analysis 00:28-00:56

One important component of a business continuity plan is a business impact analysis, or BIA. A BIA focuses on the impact that losses will have on the organization. In a BIA, you identify critical functions--the operational functions that are necessary to conduct your business. Then you prioritize those critical business functions, calculate a timeframe for recovering them after a disaster, and estimate the tangible and intangible impact on the organization.

### RTO 00:56-01:22

When you're creating this plan, you'll want to consider several parameters. The first is the recovery time objective, or RTO. The RTO states how much down time your organization can tolerate. It's another way of asking how long it'll take to get your system back up and running in the event of a disaster. Some data protection solutions have a very short recovery time and can bring your network back into operation relatively quickly. Others have a long RTO that lasts several days.

### RPO 01:22-02:27

The second parameter is the recover point objective, or RPO. The RPO tells you two things. The first is the maximum length of time you can tolerate between backups. How old can restored data be? For example, if you run backups nightly, the maximum age of your data would be 24 hours because there would be a 24-hour window when no backups were taking place. If your organization only backs up data once a week, the maximum age of your data could be seven days. The longer the time between your backups, the older the data will be.

In an extreme example, if you back up once a week on Sunday and have a catastrophic failure on Friday, all the work done for five or six days would be lost. Most organizations can't tolerate that. But if you run your backups once a day, the maximum age becomes 24 hours. That sounds much better than five or six days, right?

The second thing RPO specifies is the number of backups from which to choose. Some disaster recovery solutions provide one backup. Other solutions may have multiple recovery points to select from. This depends on the data protection itself and how you've configured it.

### MTTR 02:27-02:48

Another thing to consider during your business impact analysis is the mean time to repair. MTTR identifies the average amount of time needed to repair a failed component or to restore operations. If you provide system access to other organizations, your service level agreement may specify how quickly you guarantee a fully functional and accessible system.

### MTBF 02:48-03:02

Similarly, the mean time between failures, or MTBF, identifies the average lifetime of a system or component--how long before the system wears out from age or use. Components should be replaced about the time the MTBF is reached.

### Site Resiliency 03:02-03:21

In the event of a tornado, fire, or hurricane, your building will probably be unusable. Implementing site resiliency – having an alternate location where you can pick up business where you left off – could be extremely beneficial to your organization. There are three categories of site resiliency: hot sites, warm sites, and cold sites.

### Hot Site 03:21-04:00

A hot site, or active backup model, is an alternate location that facilitates a fast and full recovery. This is, by far, the most effective backup option. It's also the most costly. In order to be fully operational within minutes, you need to have an alternate location. All servers, devices, cabling, and infrastructure need to be installed and ready to go. Hot sites often have a live connection to your main site with data copied across to the duplicate servers. This is called mirroring. If the active site fails, the hot site is fully operation immediately, with all the current data on the servers. This transition can occur within minutes or hours, so the downtime is minimal.

### Warm Site 04:00-04:32

A warm site is partially configured. You have an alternate location. Some servers, some devices, some cabling, and some infrastructure is installed, but not everything. Data backups are available, but they aren't mirrored. Some recovery from backup tapes, the cloud, or other backup locations may be needed. This transition could occur within hours or days, so the downtime would be noticeable.

A warm site could be shared with another organization to lower its cost. This can be a good idea. Just make sure that the companies are in different areas so a natural disaster can't take them out at the same time.

### Cold Site 04:32-04:51

Finally, there's a cold site. You do have an alternate location, but all equipment would need to be installed, and all data would need to be recovered. Downtime could extend for several weeks or even months.

No matter what type of site you decide to use, be sure to thoroughly document what you have and what you will need at the alternate location in the event of a disaster.

### Summary 04:51-05:06

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we discussed business continuity plans, business impact analysis, and site resiliency, including hot, warm, and cold site architecture.

## 13.2.6 Business Continuity Planning Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Business continuity
   </li>
   <li>
    Business continuity plan
   </li>
   <li>
    Business impact analysis
   </li>
   <li>
    Business continuity best practices
   </li>
</ul>

### Business Continuity

Business continuity is the activity performed by an organization to ensure that critical business functions are available to customers, suppliers, regulators, and other entities that must have access to those functions. Business continuity refers to activities performed daily to maintain service, consistency, and recoverability. This is not something that should be implemented at the time of a disaster.

### Business Continuity Plan

A business continuity plan (BCP) identifies appropriate disaster responses that maintain business operations during reduced or restricted infrastructure and resource capabilities. Also, a BCP identifies actions required to restore the business to normal operation. A business continuity plan is designed to ensure that critical business functions (CBF) can be performed when operations are disrupted. Development of a BCP manual to document and track the progress of the BCP would include the following steps:

<ol type="1">
   <li>
    Analysis
   </li>
   <li>
    Solution design
   </li>
   <li>
    Implementation
   </li>
   <li>
    Testing and organization acceptance
   </li>
   <li>
    Maintenance
   </li>
</ol>

A business continuity plan:

<ul>
   <li>
    Identifies and prioritizes critical functions.
   </li>
   <li>
    Calculates recovery timeframes.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identifies plans, including resource dependencies and response options, to bring critical functions online within an established timeframe. These plans spell out a clear order of restoration based on company needs and priorities as well as legal responsibilities to customers and shareholders.
   </li>
   <li>
    Specifies procedures for the security of unharmed assets.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identifies procedures for the salvaging of damaged assets.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identifies BCP team members who are responsible for plan implementation.
   </li>
   <li>
    Should be tested regularly to verify that the plan still meets recovery objectives.
   </li>
</ul>

### Business Impact Analysis

A business impact analysis (BIA) focuses on the impact that losses will have on an organization. A BIA:

<ul>
   <li>
    Identifies threats that can affect processes/assets.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identifies mission-essential functions.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identifies critical systems.
   </li>
   <li>
    Establishes the maximum downtime (MDT) the corporation can survive without the process/asset.
   </li>
   <li>
    Establishes other recovery benchmark values, like:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Recovery point objective (RPO)
     </li>
     <li>
      Recovery time objective (RTO)
     </li>
     <li>
      Mean time between failures (MTBF)
     </li>
     <li>
      Mean time to repair (MTTR)
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Estimates tangible (financial loss) and intangible (loss of customer trust) impact on the organization.
    <ul>
     <li>
      Life
     </li>
     <li>
      Property
     </li>
     <li>
      Safety
     </li>
     <li>
      Finance
     </li>
     <li>
      Reputation
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
</ul>

Senior management may mistakenly view the security program as a cash drain rather than a cost-saving implementation. The BIA should be used to demonstrate the cost savings of the security program.

### Business Continuity Best Practices

Keep in mind the following when creating the disaster recovery and business continuity plans:

<ul>
   <li>
    A good plan documents all important decisions before the disaster strikes. When a disaster occurs, staff members simply need to follow the documented procedures.
   </li>
   <li>
    Disaster response is typically divided into phases:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Identify the disaster, ensure the safety of personnel, and begin to implement recovery procedures.
     </li>
     <li>
      Implement short-term recovery mechanisms to bring mission-critical systems online.
     </li>
     <li>
      Stabilize operations by restoring supporting departments and functions.
     </li>
     <li>
      Implement measures to restore all functions to normal. Switch back from temporary measures to normal operating procedures. The order of restoration is defined in the BCP and then carried out in this last phase. A typical restoration order begins with the systems, databases, and applications that are most critical to the continued operation of the business. The order of restoration often varies significantly from one company to another.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Define processes for implementing, testing, and training team members. Team members should be representatives from all major parts of the corporation.
   </li>
   <li>
    After the plan has been created, conduct regular practices and training exercises to test portions of the plan. Revise the plan or training as necessary.
   </li>
   <li>
    As a BCP or DRP plan evolves, it is essential to collect and destroy all outdated copies of the plan as a new version of 
		the plan is rolled out.
   </li>
   <li>
    Assign responsibility for ongoing maintenance of the BCP and DRP plans.
   </li>
</ul>

Succession planning is a process for identifying and developing internal people with the potential to fill future key positions within an organization. Succession planning:

<ul>
   <li>
    Increases the availability of experienced and capable employees that are prepared to assume specific roles as they become available.
   </li>
   <li>
    Ensures that the right competencies are recruited into the organization 
		to be nurtured and developed over time to guarantee smooth transitions for future vacancies.
   </li>
   <li>
    Contrasts replacement planning, which focuses on identifying specific backup candidates for given positions.
   </li>
</ul>
