---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.1 Understanding Attacks
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- How do persistent and non-persistent threats differ?
- What protections can you implement against organized crime threat actors?
- Which method can you use to access an application or operating system for troubleshooting?
- Which methodologies can you use to defend a network?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Identify threat actor types.
- Describe attack strategies.
- Describe defense strategies.

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Targeted attack
    </td>
    <td>
     A type of threat in which threat actors actively pursue and compromise a target entity's
        infrastructure while maintaining anonymity.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Opportunistic attack
    </td>
    <td>
     An attack in which the threat actor is almost always trying to make money as fast as possible and with
        minimal effort.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Insider
    </td>
    <td>
     A threat agent who has authorized access to an organization and either intentionally or unintentionally
        carries out an attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Competitor
    </td>
    <td>
     A threat agent who carries out attacks on behalf of an organization and targets competing
        companies.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hacker
    </td>
    <td>
     Any threat agent who uses technical knowledge to bypass security, exploit a vulnerability, and
        gain access to protected information.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cybercriminal
    </td>
    <td>
     A subcategory of hacker threat agents. Cybercriminals are willing to take more risks and use more extreme tactics
        for financial gain.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Nation state
    </td>
    <td>
     A sovereign state threat agent that may wage an all-out war on a target and have significant
        resources for the attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Internal threat
    </td>
    <td>
     A threat from authorized individuals (insiders) who exploit assigned privileges and inside information to carry out an
        attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     External threat
    </td>
    <td>
     A threat from individuals or groups not associated with the organization, who seek to gain
        unauthorized access to data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Persistent threat
    </td>
    <td>
     A threat that seeks to gain access to a network and remain there undetected.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Non-persistent threat
    </td>
    <td>
     A threat that focuses on getting into a system and stealing information. It is usually a
        one-time event, so the attacker is not concerned with detection.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Open-source intelligence (OSINT)
    </td>
    <td>
     Information that is readily available to the public and doesn't require any type of malicious
        activity to obtain.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     White hat
    </td>
    <td>
     A skilled hacker who uses skills and knowledge for defensive purposes only. The white hat hacker
        interacts only with systems for which express access permission is given.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Black hat
    </td>
    <td>
     A skilled hacker who uses skills and knowledge for illegal or malicious purposes.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Gray hat
    </td>
    <td>
     A skilled hacker who falls in the middle of white hat and black hat hackers. The gray hat may cross
        the line of what is ethical, but usually has good intentions and isn’t malicious like a black hat hacker.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     5.0 Audit and Security Assessment
     <p>
      5.2 Assessment Techniques
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      1.5. Explain different threat actors, vectors, and intelligence sources
     </p>
     <ul>
      Actors and threats
      <ul>
       <li>
        Advanced persistent threat (APT)
       </li>
       <li>
        Insider threats
       </li>
       <li>
        State actors
       </li>
       <li>
        Hacktivists
       </li>
       <li>
        Script kiddies
       </li>
       <li>
        Criminal syndicates
       </li>
       <li>
        Hackers
        <ul>
         <li>
          Hackers - White hat
         </li>
         <li>
          Hackers - Black hat
         </li>
         <li>
          Hackers - Gray hat
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Shadow IT
       </li>
       <li>
        Competitors
       </li>
      </ul>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 2.1.1 Threat Actor Types

Threat Actor Types 00:00-00:30
In the world of InfoSec, a threat actor is any individual or entity that carries out an attack. Not all threat actors are the same. They have different motives, attributes, and attack characteristics.

For example, a hacker trying to exploit a vulnerability has a different attack profile than an organized crime group waging an assault on your network. Because of this, it's your job to understand the different types of threat actors so you can protect your systems.

Targeted vs Opportunistic Attacks 00:30-02:49
The first thing you should know is the difference between an opportunistic attack and a targeted attack. Let's start by looking at an opportunistic attack.

In this attack, the threat actor is usually trying to make money as fast as possible and with minimal effort. And because hiding your tracks and presence is time-consuming, they usually won't bother. They want to get in, grab the goods, and get out. Think of it as the smash-and-grab of cyberattacks.

An opportunistic attack is typically automated and involves scanning a wide range of systems for known vulnerabilities, such as old software, exposed ports, default configurations, and so on.

A common example of an opportunistic attack is ransomware. An attacker will gain access to a system, plant a virus that encrypts all user data, and demand a payment for decrypting the data. The best way to defend your systems from opportunistic attacks is to follow security best practices.

A targeted attack, on the other hand, is much more dangerous and almost impossible to defeat. A targeted attack is methodical and often carried out by multiple entities that have substantial resources. APT attacks, or advanced persistent threat attacks, are a good example of a sophisticated attack that's difficult to deflect. An APT is a stealthy attack that gains access to a network or computer system and remains hidden for an extended period of time. This means that the threat actor can keep going back undetected for quite a while.

Stuxnet is a well-known APT attack. It's a malicious computer worm specifically designed to target SCADA systems. It was created to target industrial centrifuges used by the Iranian nuclear program. Stuxnet's code was so large and complex that it would have required huge amounts of funding and resources to create.

Generally, APTs are attributed to nation states or large organizations targeting each other, but threat actors that aren't associated with nation states or large organizations have carried out successful APT attacks too.

Even though targeted attacks are next to impossible to protect yourself from, you shouldn't just throw in the towel. It's still beneficial to protect your network and minimize your attack surface as much as possible to make it that much harder for an attacker to succeed.

Now that we know the main types of attacks, let's take a look at the different threat actors.

Insiders 02:49-04:39
The first one we'll look at is insiders. They're one of the most dangerous and overlooked threat actors. Now, when I say insider, this could mean a customer, janitor, or even a security guard—anyone who's allowed inside the facility. But most of the time, it's an employee.

Of course, most employees aren't bad. But they're all potential threats, and you need to take appropriate actions to prevent them from becoming actual threat actors and exploiting a vulnerability.

There are many reasons why an employee can become a threat actor. They could be disgruntled and motivated by a personal vendetta. They might have been bribed, or they could steal customer information for personal benefit.

All these reasons require the employee to make a conscious effort to carry out an attack. However, sometimes, an employee becomes a threat actor without realizing it. This person is called an unintentional threat actor. They create security breaches doing what they think is harmless day-to-day work.

Because they have no idea they're doing anything wrong, they'll continue to compromise the organization in ignorance. Any employee could become an unintentional threat actor.

An example of this is Shadow IT. This term refers to hardware or software used in the workplace without the knowledge of the IT department. In their quest for efficiency and quality work, many employees turn to cloud-based services such as file sharing apps, collaboration tools, and other SaaS applications. Users are comfortable downloading and using apps and services. But doing so without an IT professional's approval could be dangerous.

See, it's the IT department's responsibility to ensure security and compliance for the company's data. Shadow IT applications and services are managed by the third parties who created them, so unless the IT department has approved them, they could pose a threat to security. The key takeaway to remember is that insiders have easier access to company information and assets than someone on the outside trying to break in, making them a more dangerous threat.

Competitors 04:39-05:25
Another type of threat actor is a competitor. This is obvious, but business is competitive. And sometimes, organizations cross the line and use corporate espionage to get information from competitors. When I say corporate, I'm not necessarily talking about giant corporations. These tactics can be used on non-profit, private, and even smaller companies.

There are two tactics used in corporate espionage, internal and external. Internal means a competitor hires a spy that gets a job at your company. This new employee then exploits any internal vulnerabilities available and steals information for their client. External is when the competitor hires a spy to attack a company from the outside by exploiting any existing external vulnerabilities and returning the information to their client.

Hackers 05:25-07:43
The next threat agents you need to be aware of are hackers. The word hacker is kind of a broad, generic term that tends to be applied to many different categories of threat agents. But when I say hacker, I mean any threat agent who uses their technical knowledge to bypass security, exploit a vulnerability, and gain access to protected information.

There are many reasons why a hacker becomes a threat agent, but the most common is for attention. Instead of seeking financial gain or revenge, they just want the bragging rights to say, ‘I did that'. And this ties into their second motive, which is simply the thrill of hacking. Some hackers get a big kick out of knowing they can get past security measures and gain access to a system. They might not even do anything malicious.

Another reason is, of course, criminal. The hacker wants access to your information to receive a reward. This reward could be financial, political, or something else entirely. Hackers themselves come in a lot of varieties; their motives and labels are different. For example, some hackers call themselves hacktivists. These are hackers that have a political motive and are usually are out to disrupt governments, large corporations, or other entities that oppose their political views.

Another is a script kiddie. These aren't hackers in the traditional sense. As their name implies, they're the kids of the hacking world. Script kiddies use applications or scripts written by much more accomplished individuals to attack systems or compromise devices.

There are also black, gray, and white hat hackers.

Black hat hackers are very skilled and use their power for illegal or malicious purposes, such as executing denial-of-service attacks and stealing identities. Black hats are also called crackers. These hackers are highly unethical. A gray hat hacker falls in the middle of the white and black hat. They may cross ethical lines, but they usually have good intentions and aren't malicious. For example, a hacker who compromises a system without permission but informs the owner afterwards and gives them the information to help them fix the vulnerabilities is a gray hat. A white hat hacker is a good person who tries to help a company see the vulnerabilities that exist in their security.

One attribute all hackers share is that they don't want to get caught. Because of this, they take extensive measures to cover up their tracks and make sure that attacks can't be traced back to them.

Cybercriminals 07:43-08:44
There's actually a subcategory of hacker threat agents that could even be grouped with corporate spies. These are cybercriminals, and they have some unique characteristics that set them apart from an average hacker. Cybercriminals have unique motives. Like hackers, they don't want to get caught.

However, they're willing to take a lot more risks and use more extreme tactics because their motivation is usually a significant financial gain. They steal valuable information so they can sell it or use it. For example, they could target banks to steal financial information or a hospital to steal personal information. They could also seek revenge against a particular company or political entity.

Cybercriminals are more tenacious than the average hacker. Because the risk of being caught increases the longer an attack takes, hackers usually won't pursue an attack for very long. But cybercriminals are willing to take more risks because the payoff is a lot higher. Often, cybercriminals are associated with large organized crime syndicates, such as the mafia.

Nation States 08:44-09:47
The last threat actors we'll discuss are nation states. In today's world, we have to deal with attacks from other countries. These are some of the most dangerous external attacks you will face. Why? Because attacks from nation states have several key components that make them especially powerful. First, nation state attacks are highly targeted. They identify a target and wage an all-out war. Second, they're extremely motivated. Third, they use the most sophisticated attack techniques. This often includes developing completely new applications and viruses to carry out an attack. And finally, they have a lot of resources and money at their disposal.

The reality is, if a nation state sets its crosshairs on an organization, they're going to infiltrate it no matter what kind of security has been implemented. This is why it's so important that, as a security professional, you recognize what an attack looks like and what abnormal network traffic or behavior looks like. You need to not only prevent attacks from occurring, but also identify an attack that has already occurred.

Summary 09:47-10:06
All right, that's it for this lesson. In this video, we discussed different types of attacks, such as opportunistic and targeted attacks. We also talked about different threat actors, such as insiders, competitors, hackers, cybercriminals, and nation states.

## 2.1.2 Threat Agents Overview

A threat agent is a person or organization that poses a threat to an organization's security. The threat agent can be an internal or external threat. Some threats aren't even malicious; they can be caused by internal negligence.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Threat agent attributes
- Types of threat actors

#### Threat Agent Attributes

Understanding the attributes and tactics associated with threat actors will help you better identify and defend against them.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Attribute
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Internal vs. external
    </td>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        Internal threat agents
       </i>
       are authorized individuals that carry out an attack by exploiting their inherent
            privileges. This category includes employees (both current and former), janitors, security guards, and even
            customers.
      </li>
      <li>
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        External threat agents
       </i>
       are individuals or groups that attack a network from the outside and seek to gain
            unauthorized access to data.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Persistent vs. non-persistent
    </td>
    <td>
     <ul>
      <li>
       The goal of persistent threats is to gain access to a network and retain access undetected. With this type of
            threat, attackers go to great lengths to hide their tracks and presence in the network.
      </li>
      <li>
       The goal of non-persistent threats is to get into a system and steal information. The attack is usually a one-time
            event. The attacker typically doesn't care if the attack is noticed.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <div class="info" data-block="
      An advanced persistent threat (APT) is a type of persistent threat carried out by a nation
          state. An APT has the goal of continually stealing information without being detected. The tactics used are much more
          advanced than a traditional persistent threat.
     "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
      An advanced persistent threat (APT) is a type of persistent threat carried out by a nation
          state. An APT has the goal of continually stealing information without being detected. The tactics used are much more
          advanced than a traditional persistent threat.
     </span></div></div></div></div>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Open-source intelligence (OSINT)
    </td>
    <td>
     Before carrying out an attack, a threat actor typically gathers open-source intelligence (OSINT) about
        the target. OSINT is information that is readily available to the public and doesn't require any type of malicious
        activity to obtain. Sources of OSINT include the following:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Media (newspapers, magazines, advertisements)
      </li>
      <li>
       Internet (websites, blogs, social media)
      </li>
      <li>
       Public government data (public reports, hearings, press conferences, speeches)
      </li>
      <li>
       Professional and academic publications (journals, academic papers, dissertations)
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

#### Types of Threat Actors

The following table describes the types of threat actors that you, as a security professional, need to be aware of.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Threat actor type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Insider
    </td>
    <td>
     An insider is any individual who has authorized access to an organization and either intentionally or
        unintentionally carries out an attack. The most common type of insider is a full-time employee; however, other inside
        actors include customers, janitors, security guards, and even former employees. Possible motives for an insider threat
        actor can include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Disgruntlement with an employer
      </li>
      <li>
       Bribery by a competitor
      </li>
      <li>
       Personal financial gain
      </li>
     </ul>
     Because insiders are one of the most dangerous and overlooked threats to an organization, you need to take the
        appropriate steps to protect against them.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Require mandatory vacations.
      </li>
      <li>
       Create and follow onboarding and off-boarding procedures.
      </li>
      <li>
       Employ the principal of least privilege.
      </li>
      <li>
       Have appropriate physical security controls in place.
      </li>
      <li>
       Require security awareness training that is tailored for the role of the employee (role-based awareness training).
          Typical roles include:
       <ul>
        <li>
         Data owner
        </li>
        <li>
         System administrator
        </li>
        <li>
         System owner
        </li>
        <li>
         User
        </li>
        <li>
         Privileged user
        </li>
        <li>
         Executive user
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     <div class="info" data-block="
      Sometimes an employee can become an insider threat actor without knowing it. This is known as an
        unintentional insider threat actor. Proper security training can help protect against unintentional insider threat
        actors.
     "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
      Sometimes an employee can become an insider threat actor without knowing it. This is known as an
        unintentional insider threat actor. Proper security training can help protect against unintentional insider threat
        actors.
     </span></div></div></div></div>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     White hat
    </td>
    <td>
     A skilled hacker who uses knowledge and skills only for defensive purposes. A white hat hacker
        obtains explicit permission to interact a system or systems. These are the ethical hackers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Black hat
    </td>
    <td>
     This hacker is also very skilled, but uses knowledge and skills for illegal or malicious purposes. A
        black hat is also known as a cracker. They are highly unethical.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Gray hat
    </td>
    <td>
     The gray hat hacker falls in the middle of the white hat and black hat hackers. The gray hat may cross
        the line of what is ethical, but usually has good intentions and isn't malicious like a black hat hacker.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Script kiddie
    </td>
    <td>
     A script kiddie is an individual who carries out an attack by using scripts or programs written by more
        advanced hackers. Script kiddies typically lack the skills and sophistication of legitimate hackers. Script kiddies are
        usually motivated by the chance to impress their friends or garner attention in the hacking community.
     <p>
      Because script kiddies lack knowledge and sophistication, their attacks often seek to exploit well-known vulnerabilities
        in systems. As such, defending against script kiddies involves keeping systems up-to-date and using standard security
        practices.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hacktivist
    </td>
    <td>
     A hacktivist is any individual whose attacks are politically motivated. Instead of seeking financial
        gain, hacktivists are looking to defame; shed light on; or cripple an organization or government. Often times, hacktivists
        work alone. Occasionally, they create unified groups of like-minded hackers. For example, the website wikileaks.org is a
        repository of leaked government secrets, some of which have been obtain by hacktivists.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Organized Crime
    </td>
    <td>
     An organized crime threat actor consists of a group of cybercriminals whose main goal is financial
        gain. Attacks carried out by organized crime groups can last several months, are well-funded, and are extremely
        sophisticated. A common tactic used by organized crime is a targeted phishing campaign. Once access is gained, the group
        will either steal data and threaten to release it, or use ransomware to hold data hostage.
     <p>
      Due to the level of sophistication and amount of funding, attacks from organized crime groups are extremely hard to
        protect against. In many cases, it's simply a matter of time until a data breach occurs or ransomware takes hold.
        Because of this, many companies that need immediate access to their data (such as hospitals and financial institutions)
        stockpile digital currency in case of an attack. Specific protections against organized crime threat actors include:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Proper user security training
      </li>
      <li>
       Implementing email filtering systems
      </li>
      <li>
       Properly secure and stored data backups
      </li>
     </ul>
     <div class="info" data-block="
      In July 2017, an organized crime group hacked HBO's network and stole a purported 1.5
        terabytes of data. The group then demanded HBO pay it a hefty ransom in bitcoins, or it would release the data to the
        public.
     "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
      In July 2017, an organized crime group hacked HBO's network and stole a purported 1.5
        terabytes of data. The group then demanded HBO pay it a hefty ransom in bitcoins, or it would release the data to the
        public.
     </span></div></div></div></div>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Nation state
    </td>
    <td>
     A nation state is the most organized, well-funded, and dangerous type of threat actor. There are two
        primary motives for nation state attacks (also called state-sponsored attacks).
     <ul>
      <li>
       Obtaining information - some attacks seek to obtain sensitive information, such as government secrets. These attacks
          usually target organizations that have government contracts or the government systems themselves. Attacks motivated by
          information gathering are considered a type of APT, because the goal is to remain in the system undetected.
      </li>
      <li>
       Crippling systems - some attacks seek to cripple the target's network or infrastructure. For example, an attack
          could target a city's power grid or water system.
       <div class="info" data-block="
        In 2010, a malicious computer worm called Stuxnet was discovered. The worm was designed to
          target industrial centrifuges used by the Iranian nuclear program. Stuxnet is thought to be a state-sponsored attack
          because its code was so large and complex that it would have required huge amounts of funding and resources to
          create.
       "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
        In 2010, a malicious computer worm called Stuxnet was discovered. The worm was designed to
          target industrial centrifuges used by the Iranian nuclear program. Stuxnet is thought to be a state-sponsored attack
          because its code was so large and complex that it would have required huge amounts of funding and resources to
          create.
       </span></div></div></div></div>
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      Nation states use many attack vectors and unknown exploits. Defending against them involves building a comprehensive
        security approach that uses all aspects of threat prevention and protection.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Competitor
    </td>
    <td>
     A competitor threat actor carries out attacks on behalf of an organization and targets competing
        companies. For example, a payment processing company could hire someone to carry out a DDoS attack on a competing payment
        processing company to force users to choose the attacker's product. The motive behind such attacks include financial
        gain, competitor defamation, or stealing industry secrets.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

The term _hacker_ is a catch-all term used to describe any individual who uses technical knowledge to gain unauthorized access to an organization.

### 2.1.3 General Attack Strategy

### Reconnaissance 00:00-00:43

Let's talk about the general attack strategy threat agents use to conduct an exploit.

Although there are a multitude of ways to carry out an exploit, many threat agents will actually follow the same general attack strategy. Understanding the methodology behind common attacks can help you defend your information assets better.

The first step in most attacks is some type of reconnaissance. The attacker needs to probe the target computer system or target network for vulnerabilities. They're also trying to gather information. They want to know about system hardware and network configurations. They want to know about individual users and their susceptibility. They'll use different tools to find different information.

### Social Engineering 00:43-01:39

An agent conducting a social engineering attack needs to gather information about the users on the system. They might dumpster dive, sifting through garbage to try to find critical information, such as passwords that have been written down. Any information about network users, systems, and processes can be useful to an attacker.

Another tactic is to call individual users and intimidate them enough to give out important information. An attacker will try to sound like someone who has authority in the organization. They'll threaten employees with discipline to acquire sensitive information.

An alternative to the intimidation approach is the sympathetic approach. The attacker will pretend to be a fellow employee at the organization who is in a desperate situation that can only be rectified by certain information.

There are variations on these methodologies, of course. For example, it is possible for someone to use aggressive emails, texts, or messages on social media to gain information.

### Technical 01:39-02:29

If an agent is conducting a technical exploit, then the tools used will be a little bit different. A very common tactic is to use the port scan with the utility. The nmap utility is a security scanner that hackers use a lot. It scans a system to find out what ports are open. An open port on a system represents a potential hole that can be exploited.

A ping sweep is another favorite attack tool. The attacking system sends a ping, or an ICMP echo request, to a range of IP addresses—"say 192.168.1.1 to 192.168.1.254. Any valid IP address configured to respond to ping requests will respond with an ICMP echo reply packet. This tells an attacker which IP addresses are active and available on the network.

### Breach 02:29-03:09

If the reconnaissance goes well and the attacker has a lot of information to work with, the next step is breaching the system.

The way the breach is conducted depends on the type of exploit involved. If it's a social engineering exploit, they're going to use the data gathered from the user, such as their username and password. Alternatively, they could get a user to do something for them.

If the exploit is a technical exploit, then different processes will be used. The attacker might try to cause an exception error with a buffer overflow that gives them access to the system. They might identify an open port on a network server and try to exploit it. They might try to use password-cracking software to crack a password.

### Escalate Privileges 03:09-03:37

Once the system has been breached, the next step is to escalate privileges. Most breaches provide the attacker with a limited amount of access to the system, since most user accounts don't have high-level privileges. Even if they used a technical exploit, an attacker will probably only have a low level of access. That's not good enough. They want escalated privileges to the system that they're attacking. There are a variety of ways to do this, but many involve exploiting weaknesses in the system's design.

### Create a Backdoor 03:37-04:22

In addition to escalating privileges, attackers will also want to create an easy way to access the system a second time. This is called a backdoor. It makes it so they won't have to go through the reconnaissance and breaching process the next time they want to get in. There are all kinds of ways to set up a backdoor.

For example, an attacker could set up their own user account. They may even create a user account that looks the same as a user account that already exists. Through social engineering, they may have identified the user name of a particular person in the organization. And with some operating systems, you can create a username and then put a space at the end of it. The operating system will recognize it as a completely different user account, but most administrators will see it as identical to the legitimate user account.

### Stage 04:22-04:50

The next phase in the attack is the stage. This step is optional; if the exploit was designed to steal information like credit card numbers, then an attacker is not going to be concerned with spreading the attack to other systems. If, however, the attack is an internet worm that's going to be spread all over the world, then the attacker wants to use the system that they've breached to spread the attack. In other words, the breached system becomes a staging ground for mounting attacks on additional systems.

### Exploit 04:50-05:39

The last step is to actually exploit. The attacker tries to gain whatever they initially attacked the system for. It could be customer information, ID numbers, credit card numbers, or embarrassing personal information. The goal of the exploit may not even be to steal; it might seek to create so much traffic on a particular system that the system can no longer function normally and provide services. In this way, the attack is actually denying services, rather than stealing anything.

An exploit could also seek to corrupt or modify information. Of course, the actual exploit conducted depends on the motivation of the threat agent. An attacker could be trying to steal information for financial gain or trying to get back at an organization for a perceived wrong. They might be a cyber terrorist trying to bring down a critical infrastructure system.

### Summary 05:39-06:07

Understanding general attack strategies will help you, as a security administrator, to better identify when attacks are occurring and defend your system against them. It can also help you identify weak spots in your system so you can prevent attacks altogether.

To quickly review, the steps in a general attack strategy are reconnaissance, breaching, escalating privileges, staging, and exploiting.

## 2.1.4 General Defense Strategy

### General Defense Strategy 00:00-00:19

As a security administrator, you're responsible for protecting your information from an almost limitless number of attacks and exploits. To guard your information from attacks, you need to formulate a general defense strategy using several fundamental security principles.

### Layered Defenses 00:19-01:55

The first principle we need to look at is layering. Your defenses need to be layered. This means using multiple strategies to protect information.

For example, in order to log in to a computer system, by default, all you have to provide is the user name and password.

Well, that's good--but what if the user name and password get compromised? The attacker who obtained the user name and password now has access to whatever privileges that user account has within the system.

But what if you required a fingerprint that's read via a biometric scanner in addition to a user name and password? With this extra security precaution, we create a layered defense for that particular system. Someone could come along and compromise a particular user's user name and password on that system, but they still can't log in because they don't have that user's fingerprint.

The one thing you need to remember when you're dealing with most attackers is that they're looking for low-hanging fruit; in other words, they're lazy. Let's say you have a choice of three different systems to try to compromise, and they're all worth about the same. Two of them are extremely difficult, with layered defenses that will take a lot of work and risk to compromise. The third system is really lax on their security.

Which one are you going to attack? The third one! So, by using layered defenses, you make sure that your system or network is not a target of opportunity. Is that going to deter a determined attacker, like a disgruntled employee or a cyber terrorist? No. To them, you're still a target of opportunity because they're not focused on anybody else--they are focused on you. But using layered defenses still makes it more difficult to access your system.

### Principle of Least Privilege 01:55-04:32

The next part of your overall defensive strategy is minimizing user access. You need to protect your information from the inside and the outside. Basically, each user should have access to the information they need to do their job and no more. This is called the principle of least privilege. One problem with the principle of least privilege is that some operating systems give users access to only what they have been specifically granted privileges to, while other operating systems basically give everybody access to everything unless they are specifically denied access. What you need to do is look at the systems where the information you're protecting is stored and determine whether the operating system is the first type or the second type.

Here's an example: We have three users who use this particular server. It's a Linux server. We have Fred, Mary, and Bob. Fred needs access to his home directory on the server, which is located in the /Home/Fred directory. Therefore, according to the principle of least privilege, Fred should have access to only this directory on that server, and no others.

Mary needs to have access to her home directory right here, /Home/Mary. She is also working on a project that's developing a new widget for the company. She needs access a special directory named Widgets, too. Additionally, she's been granted access to a shared area right here on the server hard drive, where multiple users can share their information. So she is given that level of access. Bob, over here, has access to his home directory, /Home/Bob, and he has also been granted access to the shared directory /Shared.

This is a very common setup in the real world, but there's a problem with it: Individual users have home directories that are protected and inaccessible to anybody else. But then the administrator sets up shared directories, and it becomes much easier for the principle of least privilege to be violated. The problem isn't with the directory itself; the problem is with what people do with that shared directory. From a productivity standpoint, shared directories work well because they allow multiple people to collaborate on documents and work together efficiently. A user can put a file into the shared folder, and anyone who has access to the shared folder can open the file and do whatever work they need to.

A problem that can occur with shared directories, however, is users adding sensitive files to the shared folder. It can happen that users that have access to the shared folder should not have access to certain files that have been added to the shared folder. Shared folders ruin the strict privilege denial system.

### Randomness 04:32-06:44

The next component that you need to include in your overall defensive posture is randomness. The problem here is that human beings tend to be creatures of habit. We establish predictable patterns of behavior. For example, you probably take the same route to work at the same time each day. Once you're at work you probably follow the same daily routine—"checking emails, attending meetings, writing reports, completing tasks—"and the same weekly routine. This is bad from an information security standpoint because attackers can identify these personal patterns and then use them to their advantage.

As the security administrator for a system, you need to randomize your personal habits as part of your defensive strategy. If someone wants to break into your system and they're using a social exploit combined with a technical exploit, they might observe what time you come to work, what time you go on break, what time you run backups, etc. Whatever information they can glean during the reconnaissance phase of an attack helps them determine where vulnerabilities lie.

Another good thing to do is to randomize password change intervals. Security administrators usually make it so that every user has to change their password after 90 days. Well, what does that tell an attacker? They know that if they manage to compromise a user name and password, they've got a certain amount of days while that password is still valid. But if you set up your password change intervals to be 90 days once, then 30 days the next time, then 60 days, then 15 days, etc., then the attacker does not know how long that password is good for.

You should also try to obscure information. In other words, you want to make the reconnaissance process as unreliable and unpredictable as possible. You don't want an attacker to deduce behavioral trends and gather information about your system. One common recon tactic is to use ping sweeps. One thing you can do to obscure information is to make it so ping sweeps don't work. You do this by configuring a host-based firewall on every system and configuring that firewall not to respond to ICMP Echo requests. Basically, you make the systems un-pingable. If you disable ICMP Echo requests in the host-based firewall, they won't respond. You obscure how many systems are in your network, as well as which IP addresses are assigned.

### Simplicity 06:44-07:33

The last principle of a defensive posture is to keep things simple. Many administrators want to implement all the latest and most complex security measures to protect their information. That's good, but it becomes a problem if defenses are so complex that they become unusable. It is better to keep a simple defensive mechanism. Here, simple means easy to understand. If you don't fully understand how to manage a type of defense, don't use it until you are well-trained in how it works. You can't make sure a security system is doing its job if you don't know what it's supposed to do. You need to know how to interpret the output from the system and how to fix problems when they occur.

As a security administrator, you need to implement the concepts that we talked about in your defensive strategy in order to create a system that's much more difficult to breach or exploit.

### Summary 07:33-07:51

In this lesson, we covered the various components that comprise an overall defensive strategy. We talked about layered defenses, the principle of least privilege, varied defense mechanisms, randomizing behaviors, and keeping things simple.

## 2.1.5 Attack and Defense Strategy Overview

Understanding the methodology behind common attacks can help you better defend your assets.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Attack strategies
- Defense methodologies

### Attack Strategies

General attack strategies incorporate some or all of the techniques explained in the following table.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Strategy
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Perform reconnaissance
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Reconnaissance
      </i>
      is the process of
            gathering information about an organization, including:
      <ul>
       <li>
        System hardware information
       </li>
       <li>
        Network configuration
       </li>
       <li>
        Individual user information
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Use social engineering
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Social engineering
      </i>
      is the process of
            manipulating others into providing sensitive information. Social
            engineering tactics include:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Intimidation
       </li>
       <li>
        Sympathy
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Use technical approaches
     </td>
     <td>
      A
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       technical
      </i>
      approach to obtaining
            information includes using software or utilities to find
            vulnerabilities in a system. Methods often used by hackers are:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Port scan
       </li>
       <li>
        Ping sweep
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Breach the system
     </td>
     <td>
      A
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       breach
      </i>
      is the penetration of system
            defenses. It is often achieved by using information gathered by
            thorough reconnaissance.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Escalate privileges
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Escalating privileges
      </i>
      is a primary
            objective of an attacker. Once an attacker has breached the system,
            obtaining higher privileges allows the attacker to access more
            information and gain greater control within the system.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Create a backdoor
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Creating a backdoor
      </i>
      is an alternative
            method of accessing an application or operating system for
            troubleshooting. Hackers often create backdoors to exploit a system
            without being detected.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Stage computers
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Staging
      </i>
      a computer involves preparing it
            to perform additional tasks in the attack, such as installing
            software designed to attack other systems. This is an optional step.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Exploit vulnerabilities
     </td>
     <td>
      An
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       exploitation
      </i>
      takes advantage of known
            vulnerabilities in software and systems. Once a vulnerability has
            been exploited, an attacker can often:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Steal information
       </li>
       <li>
        Deny services
       </li>
       <li>
        Crash systems
       </li>
       <li>
        Modify/alter information
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

### Defense methodologies

General defense methodologies include the following items:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Methodology
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Layering
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Layering
      </i>
      involves implementing multiple
            security strategies to protect the same asset.
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Defense in depth
      </i>
      or
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       security in depth
      </i>
      is based on the premise that no single
            layer is completely effective in securing assets. The most secure
            system/network has many layers of security and eliminates single
            points of failure.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Principle of least privilege
     </td>
     <td>
      The
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       principle of least privilege
      </i>
      states
            that users or groups are given only the access they need to do their
            jobs and nothing more. When assigning privileges, be aware that it
            is often easier to give a user more access when it is needed than to
            take away privileges that have already been granted.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Variety
     </td>
     <td>
      Defensive layers should incorporate a variety of
            methods. Implementing multiple layers of the same defense does not
            provide adequate protection against attacks.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Randomness
     </td>
     <td>
      <i class="fs-italicize">
       Randomness
      </i>
      in security is the constant
            change in personal habits and passwords to prevent predictable
            behavior.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Simplicity
     </td>
     <td>
      Security measures should provide protection, but
            not be so complex that it is difficult to understand and use them.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>
