---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.2 Demilitarized Zones
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How is a honeypot used to increase network security?
    </li>
    <li>
     How is a gateway different from a router?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the typical configuration for a DMZ configured as a dual-homed gateway?
    </li>
    <li>
     A screened subnet uses two firewalls. What is the function of each firewall?
    </li>
    <li>
     What type of computer might exist inside a demilitarized zone (DMZ)?
    </li>
    <li>
     What makes bastion hosts vulnerable to attack? How can you harden bastion hosts?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure a DMZ.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Demilitarized zone (DMZ)
    </td>
    <td>
     A buffer network (or subnet) that is located between a private network and an untrusted network, such as the internet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Bastion or sacrificial host
    </td>
    <td>
     Any host that is exposed to attack and has been hardened or fortified against attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Screening router
    </td>
    <td>
     The router that is most external to the network and closest to the internet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Duel-homed gateway
    </td>
    <td>
     A firewall device that typically has three network interfaces. One interface connects to the internet, one interface
        connects to the public subnet, and one interface connects to the private network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Screened host gateway
    </td>
    <td>
     A device residing within the DMZ that requires users to authenticate in order to access resources
        within the DMZ or the intranet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Screened subnet
    </td>
    <td>
     A subnet protected by two firewalls; an external firewall is connected to the internet and an internal firewall is connected to a private network.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.1 Harden Physical Access
     <blockquote>
      2.1.4 Create and Configure a Demilitarized Zone (DMZ)
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Network segmentation
       <ul>
        <li>
         DMZ
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.2.1 Demilitarized Zones

### Demilitarized Zones 00:00-00:17

A demilitarized zone (DMZ) allows you to expose an organization's services to the internet or other untrusted network, while protecting the internal network. Implementing a DMZ is part of a layered security approach.

### Network Boundaries 00:17-02:34

If you're not familiar with firewalls, you may not know what a DMZ is. Let's examine a sample scenario.

Let's say you manage networks for a small company that provides driver downloads for their products. These drivers are accessed via a customer portal on your website, which is hosted on an in-house web server. The server resides in the company's internal network.

Now, in order for customers to access this web server and download drivers, this server needs to be exposed to the internet.

One way to do this is to place the web server outside of the protected network. In other words, on the other side of the perimeter firewall, right here. This would allow users to access the drivers that reside on this web server. However, this implementation would create a significant security issue.

See, because the web server is outside the firewall, you have no control over what happens to it. Every hacker on the internet would be able to access this web server very easily and run all types of exploits on it. As you can see, this isn't a very good idea.

However, moving the web server inside the firewall presents another issue. Chances are this firewall allows out-bound traffic, but blocks all inbound traffic. This makes it so the web server would be invisible to the internet and customers couldn't access the drivers. So what you could do is add a rule in the firewall's ACL to allow connections using port 80, HTTP, and port 443, HTTPS, through.

With these ports open, users can initiate connections from the internet to the web server. But, again, this has some flaws. You've now opened up two significant holes in the firewall here, which has the potential for security breaches. Many exploits take advantage of this scenario.

An attacker gains access to the web server box through the firewall using these two open ports. The attacker then perpetrates a variety of exploits on the web server and, since this web server is on the same network as the rest of the network, the attacker could compromise the entire network.

So, what do you do?

One solution is to divide the network into multiple zones of different levels of security. You can create a high-security area and another area within the network that has a lower degree of security. You do this by creating a DMZ, a demilitarized zone. Let's take a look at how you do this.

### The Need to Open Ports 02:34-03:54

First, you accept the fact that you must open ports on the firewall to let internet users initiate connections to and access the web server. We still have our firewall in place. In order to allow this access, you must open ports 80 and 443 on the firewall as talked about earlier.

Opening these ports creates an area of low security on the network. The web server with open ports 80 and 443 are in the low security area directly behind the firewall. To maintain the security of the rest of your network, you install a second firewall between this area of low security and your internal network. By doing this you create a zone of high security for your internal network.

Because this web server resides in the low security area that has two ports open in the firewall, the web server resides in the DMZ, or the demilitarized zone. The general rule is that you don't put anything in the DMZ that doesn't absolutely have to be there. For example, the DMZ is not the place to put your payroll or your R&D servers. Only the servers and information accessed by users on the internet should be in the DMZ.

There is still risk in having this information out here on the web server. Somebody could break in and, for example, replace one of the driver downloads with a modified version that has a virus in it. You have to be aware of that. Because the web server is in the DMZ, you are aware of that risk and monitor it.

### Two Firewall Solution 03:54-04:33

The second, high security internal firewall behind the firewall keeps the low security area of the network to this single segment. The internal network is secure behind the second firewall. When planning your firewall rules, a general rule is that you allow traffic originating in the secured internal network into the DMZ and through to the internet.

For example, a user on your internal network should be able to open up a web browser and access the internet through the various firewalls. However, you must not allow traffic that originates in the low security area, or in the no security area, which is the internet, to establish a connection with a host in the high security area.

### Single Firewall Solution 04:33-05:40

You can also create a DMZ using a single firewall, instead of two.

In this scenario, there is one firewall, much as we saw at the very beginning of this lesson. Notice that it has two network connections, two network interfaces installed.

One interface connects to the internal high-security network. The second connects to a separate isolated network segment. You configure this firewall with different sets of rules for the different network segments.

You establish high-security firewall rules for the internal network, creating the area of high-security. You implement lower-security rules, such as allowing traffic through port 80 and 443 for this network segment where the web server resides. This creates the DMZ, a lower security zone.

The lower-security rules for this network segment allow internet connections to the web server on ports 80 and port 443. You should hardened the server as much as possible because it's sitting in a lower-security area inside the DMZ.

Again, you don't want anything in the DMZ that doesn't need to be there. You don't want proprietary information, or other confidential information In the DMZ. You want that information on the high-security network.

### Two vs One 05:40-06:33

Each of these options has its strengths and its weaknesses. The two-firewall system requires more hardware, and therefore requires you to administer two separate firewall systems. The benefit is that an attack on the firewall has no effect on the internal firewall. Everything on the high-security network in the high-security zone could be functioning just fine, while the firewall is experiencing continual attacks.

The single-firewall solution with multiple interfaces requires less hardware than the first solution. Therefore, you maintain only a single system. The single firewall system allows you to create multiple DMZs. You can create multiple security zones with the one firewall device by adding additional interfaces. You could have a very high-security zone, a medium security zone, and a low-security zone.

The drawback to this approach is that it introduces a single point of failure. If that firewall goes down, everything else goes down with it.

### Summary 06:33-06:50

In this lesson we discussed a DMZ. We first defined what a DMZ is. We then looked at different ways you can create a DMZ, with multiple firewalls, or with a single firewall with multiple interfaces installed.

## 5.2.2 Configuring a DMZ

### Configuring a DMZ 00:00-00:54

In this demonstration, we're going to create a demilitarized zone, or DMZ, on our pfSense security appliance.

For our current configuration, our device has two connections. We have a LAN and a WAN. As I said, we're here to configure a DMZ. I have a few extra optional ports on my pfSense device, and I'm going to configure one of these for the DMZ. I'll also assign it the IP address of 172.16.1.1. Let's get started.

The first thing I'll do from our pfSense Dashboard is confirm our current situation. You can see here that I have a WAN and a LAN. Now, to add my DMZ, I'll go up to Interfaces > Assignments. And from our Interface Assignments page, I'll come down and click on the Add button.

### Configure DMZ Interface 00:54-01:39

Over here, I can see I now have OPT1 displayed. I'll go ahead and click on this. OPT1 isn't a very good description, so let's call it ‘DMZ'.

Before I forget, I'll check the box here to enable the interface.

For IPv4 Configuration Type, I'll choose Static IPv4 from the list. We won't configure IPv6 for this demo.

Now let's scroll down to our Static IPv4 Configuration. Remember, from my diagram, I said I was going to assign it the IP of ‘172.16.1.1', so that's what I'll type in. I want to give it a /24 subnet mask.

That's all we need to do here. Click Save.

### Configure DHCP 01:39-02:43

Now we can see changes in our interface. It also says, "Don't forget to adjust the DHCP Server range if needed after applying." Let's go ahead and click on Apply Changes.

Let's configure our DHCP Server now for our DMZ. I'll go up to Services > DHCP Server. We land on the page for the LAN DHCP Server. Let's go to the DHCP Server for the DMZ.

I'll go ahead and enable our DHCP for our DMZ Interface.

Now we need to configure the range of IP addresses that our DHCP will hand out. I always leave IPs at the beginning of the range open for static addresses. I can pick something ending in .2 all the way to .254. I'll put in ‘172.16.1.100' and end at ‘172.16.1.199'. This way, I'll know anything in the 100s was handed out via DHCP.

I'll scroll down and click Save.

### Verify Settings 02:43-03:02

Now let's go back to our dashboard and verify that our DMZ Interface is showing up. I'll scroll down and, right here, you can see that we have our DMZ. This is where we can add devices to our DMZ and configure our firewall for handling traffic going to and from the DMZ.

### Summary 03:02-03:26

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we configured a DMZ. As you can see, setting up a DMZ on a security client with an optional port is fairly simple. First, we configured one of our optional ports on our pfSense to DMZ. Then we configured the DMZ's IP address and the DHCP settings.

## 5.2.4 DMZ Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Demilitarized zone (DMZ)
- DMZ terms

### Demilitarized Zone (DMZ)

A demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a buffer network (or subnet) that sits between the private network and an untrusted network (such as the internet). A DMZ typically contains publicly accessible resources, such as web, FTP, or email servers. Creating a demilitarized zone (DMZ) is part of a layered security approach.

Be aware of the following DMZ facts:

<ul>
   <li>
    If the firewall managing traffic into the DMZ fails, only the servers in the DMZ are subject to compromise. The LAN is
      protected by default.
   </li>
   <li>
    Packet filters on the firewall allow traffic directed to the public resources inside the DMZ. Packet filters also prevent
      unauthorized traffic from reaching the private network.
   </li>
   <li>
    When designing the firewall packet filters, a common practice is to close all ports. Open only those ports necessary for
      accessing the public resources inside the DMZ.
   </li>
   <li>
    To allow access to private resources from the internet, use one of the following approaches:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Place a VPN server inside the DMZ. Require internet users to authenticate to the VPN server and then allow
        communications from the VPN server to the private network. Only communications coming through the VPN server are allowed
        through the inner firewall.
     </li>
     <li>
      Copy resources that are accessible to internet users to servers inside the DMZ. Even with authentication and
        authorization configured, this approach exposes those resources in the DMZ to internet attacks.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Typically, firewalls allow traffic originating in the secured internal network into the DMZ and through to the internet.
      Traffic that originates in the DMZ (low-security area) or the internet (no-security area) should not be allowed access to the
      intranet (high-security area).
   </li>
  </ul>

> Only places servers in the DMZ that need to be there.

### DMZ Terms

The following terms are related to DMZs.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Bastion or sacrificial host
    </td>
    <td>
     A bastion host is any host that is exposed to attack and that has been hardened (or fortified) against
        those attacks. The bastion host is sometimes referred to as a sacrificial host because it is assumed that it will be
        subject to attack. The term has been applied to the following types of devices:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A host that is exposed on the network and is not protected by a firewall device.
      </li>
      <li>
       The device that provides the firewall service to the screened network behind it. Attacks must pass through the
          bastion host before they are allowed inside the screened subnet.
      </li>
      <li>
       A honeypot device that is purposefully exposed to attack in order to distract attackers.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <br>
     The following actions should be taken to harden a bastion host:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Separate roles of bastion hosts by placing a single application on each server.
      </li>
      <li>
       Fully patch your bastion host on the operating system and on applications.
      </li>
      <li>
       Run current versions of antivirus and anti-spyware software.
      </li>
      <li>
       Include a personal firewall.
      </li>
      <li>
       Uninstall any unnecessary applications or utilities.
      </li>
      <li>
       Disable and lock down all unnecessary services and ports.
      </li>
      <li>
       Tighten security on the registry and the user database.
      </li>
      <li>
       Add IP filters.
      </li>
      <li>
       Run lockdown facilities, such as IIS lock down and URLScan.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Screening router
    </td>
    <td>
     A screening router is the router that is most external to your network and closest to the internet. It
        uses access control lists (ACLs) to filter packets as a form of security. A firewall performing router functions is
        considered a screening router.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Dual-homed gateway
    </td>
    <td>
     A dual-homed gateway is a firewall device that typically has three network interfaces: one
        connected to the internet, one connected to the public subnet, and one connected to the private network. Gateways have to
        be logged on to, whereas routers pass traffic through without user authentication. IP forwarding is disabled on gateways,
        effectively blocking through traffic to the network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Screened-host gateway
    </td>
    <td>
     A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      screened-host gateway
     </i>
     resides within the DMZ, requiring users to authenticate in order
        to access resources within the DMZ or the intranet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Screened subnet
    </td>
    <td>
     A screened subnet uses two firewalls. The external firewall is connected to the internet and allows
        access to public resources. The internal firewall connects the screened subnet to the private network. With a screened
        subnet, if the outer firewall is compromised, the inner firewall still protects the private network.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>


