---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.8 Network Threats
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How does a passive attack differ from an active attack?
    </li>
    <li>
     What areas of your network should you focus on to best understand it?
    </li>
    <li>
     How does segmenting your network increase network security?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Identify passive and active reconnaissance.
    </li>
    <li>
     Recognize internal and external attacks.
    </li>
    <li>
     Understand the network map.
    </li>
    <li>
     Design a secure network.
    </li>
    <li>
     Train users to protect against vulnerabilities.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Active attack
    </td>
    <td>
     An attack in which perpetrators attempt to compromise or affect the operations of a system in some
        way.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Passive attack
    </td>
    <td>
     An attack in which perpetrators gather information without affecting the targeted
        network's flow of information.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     External attack
    </td>
    <td>
     An attack in which unauthorized individuals try to breach a network from outside the network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Inside attack
    </td>
    <td>
     An attack initiated by authorized individuals inside the network's security perimeter who attempt
        to access systems or resources to which they're not authorized.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Entry point
    </td>
    <td>
     An entry point is a location or device that allows network access and is vulnerable to attacks.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Network baseline
    </td>
    <td>
     The network baseline is the normal network activity including typical traffic patterns, data usage, and
        server loads. Activity that deviates from the baseline can indicate an attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Network segmentation
    </td>
    <td>
     Network segmentation is the division of a network into smaller networks or pieces for performance or
        security reasons.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     5.3 Explain the importance of policies to organizational security.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Personnel
       <ul>
        <li>
         User training
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.8.1 Network Threats Overview

### Network Threats Overview 00:00-00:40

The primary goal of any network attack is to gain access to a system or systems. Threat actors use systems as a pivot point to access other systems on a network. The network serves as the communications highway where all systems are connected. Attackers use this highway to gain access to vulnerable systems. Keep in mind that all data, including email, documents, video, and phone calls made using Voice over IP may be intercepted if an attacker acquires access to a network. In this lesson, we'll discuss the different types of network attacks that you need to protect against and what can be done to mitigate these types of attacks.

### Type of Attacks 00:40-01:40

Before an attack can be executed, a threat actor must gather information about the organization.

Passive reconnaissance defines an attacker's attempt to find out information about an organization without really breaching an organizations owned resources.

For example, attackers may use an organization's website, business filings, other public information, or even dumpster diving to gain information such as employee names, internet registry, financial information, or other pertinent information.

With that basic information in hand, an attacker can begin active reconnaissance. This is where the attacker uses the information to try and find out more specific information about the organization.

Using a variety of tools, the attacker may look for specific servers with open ports, DNS usage information, network topology, protocols in use, etc. The primary goal is not to compromise the system but learn about its strengths and weaknesses. Attackers may perform these tasks very slowly as not to arise suspicion, or late at night when no one is watching.

### Types of Attack 01:40-02:40

After gathering enough information, the attacker can begin the attack. One type of attack is known as an inside attack. This is where the attacker is someone who has authorized access to the internal systems, such as an employee, or a contractor.

The inside attacker could be a disgruntled employee or a corporate spy looking to exploit the system. The motive could be financial gain or to expose corporate assets. Inside attacks can be devastating since many organizations have weak security internally for authorized users.

More often, attacks are external. External attacks attempt to compromise the network in some way by using information obtained during reconnaissance. Attackers may try to brute-force an administrative password using a dictionary or rainbow table attack. An attacker could attempt to disable a system using a denial of service (DoS) attack.

Further, an attacker may attempt a man-in-the-middle attack to gather authentication information and then use a replay attack to gain authenticated access to a secure database.

### Attack Examples 02:40-03:08

Practically all network attacks try to compromise a single device. That device may be a server, workstation, Internet of Things device, tablet, cellular device – anything that connects to the network.

The passive attack helps the attacker identify a vulnerable device, then the attacker uses an active attack to compromise that device. Once the attacker has control of that device, it can be used to gain additional network access.

Let's look at a couple of examples.

### Attack Scenarios 03:08-04:01

Demilitarized zones often have public facing servers. These typically include email, web servers, and remote access servers. Suppose an attacker, after performing reconnaissance, finds a vulnerability in the remote access server. The attacker can attempt to exploit the vulnerability to gain access to that server. If successful, the attacker could then use the compromised server to create a remote access account to authenticate and, potentially, infiltrate the production system.

The attacker could also try to use the compromised server to access the internal network using a pivot attack. The pivot attack would utilize the remote access server as a pivot point to gain access to the internal network. Using active reconnaissance techniques, the attacker could breach the firewall and gain access to resources on the internal network. This process can continue using several pivot points until the attacker finds something of interest.

### Network Map 04:01-05:44

Understanding the network is one of the primary functions for network management. To properly defend the network against attacks, the network must be well understood on multiple levels. This is accomplished using several resources such as network administrators, security administrators, and infrastructure specialists. Each has their unique understanding of the network from their specific position and will come together to provide a complete picture of the network.

The first step in mapping the network is to create a physical and logic network diagram. This diagram should include as much information as reasonably possible to define the network and show how information flows from endpoint to server to internet and back.

Next, document all assets such as server, communications equipment, security devices and endpoints. This provides a more complete understanding of the whole network. Then you need to define the potential points of entry. These are the critical junctions where attackers could potentially cause harm.

Defining the network baseline is next. The baseline defines what normal looks like. Should a network administrator see higher than normal network activity, it can be compared to the baseline. If abnormal, the network may be under attack and the administrator can investigate and take the necessary actions. The baseline is certainly not the only indication of a potential attack; however, it is a measure that can be compared against.

Last, identify potential vulnerabilities. It's important to understand what may be vulnerable to exploit by an attacker. Using white hat tools to find and eliminate vulnerabilities in network devices is a good countermeasure. By knowing what is vulnerable, network management can take steps to patch and secure all devices on the network. Doing this reduces the attack surface of the organization.

### Secure Network Design Concepts 05:44-06:53

The primary component of a secure network design is the separation or segmentation of devices. Creating network segments can help avoid potential overlaps and separate data. This is accomplished using virtual LANS, or VLANS.

There are many methods and ideologies for using VLANs. Each has its own merits, and each has its own limitations.

One method is to separate less secure devices from the more secure devices. In the example shown here, VLAN 10 has been created to contain the devices that are less secure.

The inherent nature of Internet of Things devices and bring your own device makes these devices less secure. If an attacker can compromise any of the devices on VLAN 10, that compromise is limited to only the devices that are part of VLAN 10.

The need for additional security for devices in VLAN 30 forces a separation of those critical devices. Additional security equipment such as Intrusion Detection or Intrusion Prevention can be added to enhance the VLAN segmentation and provide a higher level of security. Additionally, firewalls can be added between segments or VLANs to further the separation and security concerns.

### User Training 06:53-07:48

The largest security vulnerability in any given organization is users. Many attacks rely on social engineering. This includes phishing emails that try to persuade users to provide authentication information or company secrets.

Spear phishing or whaling emails are directed at specific persons and executives. The emails may look like a legitimate request, such as an authorization for a money transfer, but an attacker is the recipient. Attackers look for holes in armor so they can exploit any or all vulnerabilities. That's the primary reason users must be trained to avoid these attacks. For example, a suspicious looking email that specifies a password change, should prompt a user to contact the helpdesk to determine whether the email is legitimate. Training users how to spot potential scams is one way that organizations can protect themselves from a potential loss of data, resources, and money. Users are on the front line and need to know when and how to sound the alarm.

### Summary 07:48-08:26

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we looked at different attack concepts and how threat actors seek to exploit network weaknesses. First, we looked at different attack scenarios and how attackers exploit discovered weakness. Then we discussed different tasks that define how documentation can help define the network and discovery potential vulnerabilities. We also discussed how network segmentation can help limit exposure and attacks. And finally, we ended the lesson with a description detailing how user training can dramatically reduce the attack surface and potential catastrophic exploitation.

## 5.8.2 Network Threats Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Network segmentation
- Network attack types
- User education and training
- Threat focus points

### Network Segmentation

The main component of secure network-architecture concepts is network segmentation. The idea behind proper network segmentation is that if a system or systems were compromised, the damage would be limited to that network segment. Network segmentation also makes it much easier to identify suspicious network traffic since the network traffic is broken into manageable chunks.

For example, if your network has static systems, such as IoT devices, you probably want to have them on their own network segment. This minimizes the damage they can cause to a single network segment and makes identifying issues with them much easier. Likewise, you would probably need to segment the wireless network from the wired network since wireless networks are inherently less secure. Segmenting workstations from authentication servers, SQL servers, or DNS servers is also essential.

The most common way to segment networks is to create multiple virtual local area networks (VLANs) for each network zone. These zones can also be separated by firewalls to ensure only specific traffic is allowed. When creating these zones, it is helpful to create different categories or purposes for each zone; for example, a no-trust zone, low-trust zone, medium-trust zone, high-trust zone, and highest-trust zone.

The no-trust zone is the zone that you have no control over. It is where everything but your network resides—in other words, the internet. The low-trust zone is where publicly available information resides. You do have control over the security of this zone, but it is still exposed to the internet. For example, a web server might reside in this zone. This kind of zone is also referred to as a DMZ, or demilitarized zone.

### Network Attack Types

Network attacks are classified as follows:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Technique
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Active
    </td>
    <td>
     Active attacks are when perpetrators attempt to compromise or affect the operations of a system in some
      way. For example, trying to brute-force the root password on a web server is considered an active attack. A distributed
      denial-of-service (DDoS) attack is also an active attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Passive
    </td>
    <td>
     Passive attacks occur when perpetrators attempt to gather information without affecting the flow of that
      information from the targeted network. For example, sniffing network packets or performing a port scan are both types of
      passive attacks. The goal isn't to immediately compromise a system, but to learn about that system.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     External
    </td>
    <td>
     External attacks are when unauthorized individuals try to breach a network from off-site. It is key to
      remember that with external attacks, the perpetrator is unauthorized for any level of access to the network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Inside
    </td>
    <td>
     Inside attacks are initiated by authorized individuals inside the network's security perimeter who
      attempt to access systems or resources to which they're not authorized. For example, an inside attack is a disgruntled
      employee accessing unauthorized company documents and leaking them to the public.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### User Education and Training

User education and training is a very important aspect of maintaining a secure network environment. Attackers often send phishing emails to organizations in an attempt to compromise an employee workstation. The workstation is used as a pivot point to gain access to more sensitive systems. Another attack strategy is to compromise an employee's personal device that connects to the company's Wi-Fi. The personal device is then used as a pivot point. Because of this threat, it's imperative to educate users to be security-aware.

### Threat Focus Points

As a security professional, you need to understand your network on multiple levels. You should focus on the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Areas of Focus
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Entry points
    </td>
    <td>
     Recognize all vulnerabilities and entry points for possible attacks. This includes public-facing servers,
      workstations, Wi-Fi networks, and personal devices. You must account for anything that connects to the network as a possible
      entry point.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Inherent vulnerabilities
    </td>
    <td>
     Identify inherent vulnerabilities or systems that lack proper security controls. For example, if your
      organization needs to use an older version of Windows for a particular application, you need to identify that system as
      a vulnerability. Internet of Things (IoT) and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) devices are both systems that
      lack proper security controls and therefore must be dealt with appropriately.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Documentation
    </td>
    <td>
     Document all network assets in your organization and create a suitable network diagram that you can use
      as a reference. This is probably one of the most important components of knowing your system. If you don't know the
      underlying infrastructure of your network, then you can't adequately secure it. Proper network documentation and diagrams
      not only help you identify a weak network architecture or design, but protect against system sprawl and unknown
      systems.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Network baseline
    </td>
    <td>
     Identify a network baseline. This means that you need to know your systems' normal activity, such as
      regular traffic patterns, data usage, network activity, server load, and 
		anything system-related. Mainly, you need to know what your
      network looks like in normal day-to-day usage. Knowing this allows you to identify unusual or atypical activity that can
      indicate an attack in progress or a compromised network. To identify a network baseline, you can use network tools that
      monitor network traffic and create a graphical representation of the collected data.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
