---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.5 Virtual Private Networks
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What are three ways a Virtual Private Network (VPN) can be implemented?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is a VPN concentrator?
    </li>
    <li>
     What function do VPN endpoints provide?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference between full tunnel and split tunnel?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are three types of protocols used by a VPN?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is inverse split tunneling?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Configure a VPN.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure a VPN client.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure a remote access VPN.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure a VPN connection iPad.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Virtual Private Network
    </td>
    <td>
     A remote access connection that uses encryption to securely send data over an untrusted network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Tunneling
    </td>
    <td>
     Communication method that encrypts packet contents and encapsulates them for routing though a
        public network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol
     <br>
     (PPTP)
    </td>
    <td>
     A early tunneling protocol developed by Microsoft.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Layer 2 Forwarding
     <br>
     (L2F)
    </td>
    <td>
     A tunneling protocol developed by Cisco to establish virtual private network connections over the
        internet.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol
     <br>
     (L2TP)
    </td>
    <td>
     An open standard for secure multi-protocol routing.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Internet Protocol Security
     <br>
     (IPsec)
    </td>
    <td>
     A set of protocols that provides security for Internet Protocol (IP) that can be used in conjunction with
        L2TP or to set up a VPN solution.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Secure Sockets Layer
     <br>
     (SSL)
    </td>
    <td>
     A well-established protocol to secure IP protocols, such as HTTP and FTP.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Transport Layer Security
     <br>
     (TLS)
    </td>
    <td>
     A protocol that evolved from SSL and provides privacy and data integrity between two communicating
        applications.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.2 Harden Network Devices
     <blockquote>
      2.2.3 Configure and Access a Virtual Private Network (VPN)
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Virtual private network (VPN)
       <ul>
        <li>
         Always on
        </li>
        <li>
         Remote access vs. site-to-site
        </li>
        <li>
         IPSec
        </li>
        <li>
         SSL/TLS
        </li>
        <li>
         Layer 2 tunneling protocol (L2TP)
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.5.1 Virtual Private Networks

### Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) 00:00-00:30

A virtual private network (VPN) uses encryption to send data securely over an untrusted network. The high cost of dedicated WAN connections was one of the mains reasons for VPNs to be used by organizations.

A VPN takes advantage of an existing internet connection to communicate securely between devices. Let's see how this is done.

VPNs provide a secure internet connection between locations by encrypting packets in transit.

### Encapsulation 00:30-01:07

A VPN uses a protocol that tunnels, or encapsulates, each of those packets into a new packet.

Information in the packet header of these encrypted packets routes the information through the internet. On the destination device, the outer wrapping of the packets is removed, and the packet is decrypted—"the data is back in its original format.

If an attacker were to intercept packets sent via a VPN, they wouldn't be able to read any of the contents. Only the device on the other end has the appropriate decryption key that allows them to view the packet contents.

Now, there are multiple ways that you can configure a VPN through the internet.

### Host-to-Host VPN 01:07-01:31

The first way is using a host-to-host VPN. This type of VPN allows an individual host connected to the internet to establish a VPN connection to another host. With a host-to-host connection, both devices need the ability to establish and understand the VPN protocol that's used. Both devices must have the software for encrypting the packets and encapsulating the packets.

### Site-to-Site VPN 01:31-02:20

Another way is using a site-to-site VPN. With a site-to-site VPN, you have a collection of computers at each location. Each computer in any location is able to communicate securely with any other computer at another location.

Rather than requiring VPN configuration on every single computer, you install a single device, which acts as a gateway server. A VPN gateway is a dedicated VPN device that handles VPN connections, as well as the encryption and decryption of packets sent over the internet.

The nice thing about using a VPN gateway is the protocols and encapsulation method only need to be configured and maintained on a single device for the entire network, instead of on each individual device. It also allows for all traffic between the two sites to be encrypted 100 percent of the time.

### Remote Access VPN 02:20-03:02

The final method is a remote access VPN. In this case, individual hosts on the network can establish a VPN connection to the remote site. In this configuration, the client computer must be able to establish the VPN connection with a special device called a VPN concentrator that sits on the edge of the private network.

VPN concentrators are hardware devices that are dedicated to establishing client connections, as well as encrypting and decrypting VPN packets. Each client is configured with software that allows it to encrypt packets. The VPN concentrator is configured to allow or reject connections from users. It also removes the encryption before forwarding the information to the private network.

### VPN Protocols 03:02-03:16

Now, VPNs can use a few different methods to establish connections and encrypt traffic. These methods are known as VPN tunneling protocols. The two most commonly used VPN tunneling protocols are IPsec and SSL.

IPsec encrypts contents sent through a tunnel created by another protocol.

### IPsec 03:16-04:34

IPsec is probably one of the most common tunneling encryption mechanisms currently used, and IPsec is actually made up of two different protocols.

The first one is the Authentication Header, or AH. The second one is the Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP). AH is used to authentic the connection, while ESP is used to encrypt the data that's being sent through the connection.

When you implement IPsec, you can use either of these protocols by themselves. For example, if you chose to implement AH only, then your VPN will have authentication, but no encryption. In most cases, you'll want to make sure that your VPN solution using IPsec includes ESP.

IPsec also has two different modes for sending packets through the tunnel. The first way is called transport mode.

With transport mode, IPsec only encrypts each packet's internal data. Everything else—"the destination IP address, the origination IP address—"is all in cleartext.

The second mode is called tunneling mode. In tunneling mode, the entire packet is encrypted. It is then encapsulated in another non-encrypted packet—"complete with a new IP header—"and sent over the internet. Tunnel mode is usually the default sending mode for IPsec.

### SSL 04:34-05:36

Another protocol that can be used for a VPN connection is SSL. SSL's been around for a long time. It's been used in combination with other protocols, mostly HTTP, in order to secure traffic between two devices.

For example, if you were to go to an online store and purchase a product, more than likely, you're going to use the secure version of HTTP—"HTTPS—"to protect the credit card information we're sending to the web server.

Well, HTTPS leverages SSL to encrypt the traffic between those two devices. This makes SSL a great option for encrypting other types of connections between devices, such as a VPN connection. SSL requires certificates for identity proof, as well as for encryption.

One of the benefits of using SSL is the fact that it uses port 443. This is really important because most network firewalls in most organizations are already configured to allow HTTPS traffic on this port, so we don't have to make any major firewall changes if we want to deploy an SSL VPN.

### Split Tunnel vs. Full Tunnel 05:36-06:39

There's one more VPN configuration option we need to discuss, and that is the different between split tunnel and full tunnel VPN configurations.

With a split tunnel VPN, only certain types of traffic—"for example, traffic destined for a specific IP address range—"are sent through the VPN connection. All other traffic goes through the internet as normal. This configuration might be good for people who need to access private network resources but still want to access the internet through their own internet, and not through the VPN. It also helps reduce the amount of traffic sent through the VPN—"instead of sending all traffic through the VPN, only necessary traffic is sent.

Split tunneling also has something called inverse split tunneling. This is where all traffic is sent through the VPN except for a specific type of traffic, which is routed through the regular internet, unencrypted. The split is inverted, as its name suggests.

The other way you can configure the VPN is to route all traffic through the VPN, regardless of the type of traffic. This is usually the default VPN configuration method.

### Summary 06:39-07:04

When you implement a VPN, be sure to select a protocol supported by all of the devices that need to encrypt or encapsulate packets. When you use a VPN through a firewall, make sure you open the necessary ports to allow the VPN traffic through the firewall. In addition, make sure you know which type of VPN connection and configuration is best for your organization.

## 5.5.2 Configuring a VPN

### Configuring a VPN 00:00-00:13

In this demonstration, we're going to cover how to configure OpenVPN on a pfSense security appliance. We're already logged into pfSense on the Dashboard page.

Install OpenVPN Client Export Package 00:13-00:49
The first thing I'm going to do is to go to System > Package Manager and select Available Packages. I'm going to type in ‘openvpn' to search for the OpenVPN Client Export package. This will allow us to export our configuration settings to make setting up our clients a lot easier. Click Install and Confirm. This will take about a minute or so to install. Now let's confirm the installation. Success.

### Configure OpenVPN Server Type 00:49-01:13

Now let's go over to VPN > OpenVPN. We'll select Wizard to get started. In the past, setting up a VPN was a bit complicated, but the wizard makes setting up OpenVPN really quick and easy.

For the type of server, we're going to select Local User Access. We could also pick LDAP or RADIUS if you have those set up, but we don't. Click Next to continue.

### Configure OpenVPN Certificate 01:13-02:10

Now we need to create a certificate authority. pfSense adds this right in the wizard so you don't have to do it manually somewhere else, which is nice.

For the Descriptive name, I'll just enter in "TestoutCA". I'll leave these next few fields at the default values and go down to Country Code. Here, I'll enter ‘US'. For State or Province, I'll enter ‘UT' for Utah. For City, I'm in the wonderful town of ‘Pleasant Grove'. For Organization, I'll put ‘TestOut'. Now click on Add new CA to add the Certificate Authority to the server.

Now we must create a new server certificate. We just added the Certificate Authority. Next, we need an actual certificate. For Descriptive name, I'll just put ‘Testout'. I'll leave everything with the default values. Country Code, State, City, and Organization are all auto-populated with the correct answers, so I'll just click on Create new certificate.

### OpenVPN Setup 02:10-03:52

Now let's configure the server information. For our interface, we want to select our WAN. We also have LAN and DMZ. Our WAN is where traffic will typically come from. Our Protocol will be UDP on IPv4 only. You can see we have some other choices in case your setup is different from mine.

Our VPN uses the default port of 1194. We'll enter a description for our VPN and just call it ‘TestoutVPN'.

We'll leave all the cryptographic settings set to their defaults and skip down to Tunnel Settings.

The first thing we must do is enter some virtual network settings for our tunnel network. This will be a virtual network that our clients and server will use to communicate on. I'm going to enter '10.10.20.0/24'. All my VPN clients will get an IP address of 10.10.20.something with a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0.

Next is our local network. This is the LAN network that your VPN clients will access. My local LAN network is '10.10.10.0/24'.

For concurrent connections, I'll just put in 5. You can enter more or less than that. It just depends on how many VPN users you'll have connecting at one time.

Now, once your users connect, they'll need a DNS server. You could put in a public DNS or local DNS. I'll put in the DNS that my LAN uses, which is '10.10.10.1'. This is also the IP address of my pfSense appliance.

Scroll down and click Next.

### Firewall Rules 03:52-04:39

Now we need to set up two firewall rules. We need to allow traffic from our VPN clients to our VPN server. We also need to allow traffic from our clients through the VPN to our network. Lucky for us, we don't have to do this manually. OpenVPN understands what we need, and by checking these boxes, OpenVPN will configure those rules for us. Configuring rules is not part of this lesson, but they're certainly a skill you need to know. Click Next to continue. And on this page, click Finish.

Let's review what we've done. We have our interface set to WAN. Our protocol and port are set to UDP on port 1194. Our tunnel network looks good. Our encryption is here. And our description is TestoutVPN.

### Add an OpenVPN User 04:39-05:07

Now let's head over to System > User Manager and click on Add. I really don't want my admin user to be the same as one of my VPN users, so I'm going to add a different user here to keep them separate. For the username, I'll enter ‘danafellows'. I'll enter my password and confirm it. I'll just put Dana for the full name. Click Save.

Everything looks good, and that's all I need to do here.

Confirm Server Access Mode 05:07-05:31
I'll go back up to VPN > OpenVPN, come down here, and click on the edit icon. For some reason, our server mode changes to Remote Access SSL plus TLS, but we're using Remote Access (User Auth), so we need to confirm that and change it back if needed. It looks like we do, in fact, need to change that. I'll scroll down to the bottom and click on Save.

### Client Download 05:31-05:54

Now it's time to download the client configuration. We'll go to Client Export. On the next page, scroll down to our list of OpenVPN client configuration options. I'll find the one for the Windows Installer and click on it to download the configuration file.

Now I'll copy this over to a machine I have on a different network and install the OpenVPN client.

### Install and Run OpenVPN Client 05:54-07:46

I'm now on a machine on my DMZ network. I copied the installation file over, and I'll install it now. I'll click Yes to the User Access Control, click Install to continue, and click through all the rest of these to complete the installation process. Click Finish, and finally, click Close.

Now let's double-click to start the OpenVPN client. I'll drag the installation files into the Recycle Bin.

I'll move the OpenVPN client, here on the taskbar, to a spot where we can see it better. Right-click on it and choose Connect. My username is automatically populated, so I'll just enter in my password and check the Save password box. Click OK to connect. I get a message that I'm connected, and my Assigned IP is listed here.

Now, if you're like me, you might ask yourself, "How did the client know how to connect to my OpenVPN server out there on the internet?" Let's take a second to look at the config file. I'll right-click and select Edit Config to open it. It opens in a text file, and here are all the settings that were configured for us. Down here is the IP address of the WAN interface. Now, you might say, "Hey, that's a private IP address." Yes it is. This is a test network, so I'm actually using a private IP range for my WAN. Let's take a look at that for a minute.

Here's a diagram of my test network. I accessed my pfSense and OpenVPN settings from this client, over here. The configuration is actually here, on the pfSense. The client over on my DMZ network is the one that initiated the connection to the VPN just a second ago. This client can be anywhere on the internet, but for demo purposes, I placed it on my DMZ. Now let's just confirm a few final things before we wrap up.

### Confirm That OpenVPN is Connected 07:46-08:49

I'm still on my client on my DMZ. I'm going to open a command prompt to check my IP settings. I'll do an ‘ipconfig /all' and press Enter. I'll scroll up a bit. Here's the IP address of this machine on the DMZ, 172.16.1.101. That is my IP scheme for the DMZ. Now let's scroll down a bit. Remember, we made our tunnel network 10.10.20.0, and right here is an address from that range that's assigned to us. We saw that a few minutes ago, also right after we connected.

One final thing. I access the pfSense configuration through a web browser. I have it blocked from being accessed externally. But since we're connected to the LAN through this VPN, let's see if we can access it. I'll open my browser, and in the Address field, I'll enter the IP of the pfSense with the LAN address of 10.10.10.1. When I do that, the Sign In page is displayed, confirming that I have access to LAN resources.

### Summary 08:49-09:13

That's it for this demo. We configured OpenVPN on pfSense. We installed the client configuration package, set up our certificate, configured OpenVPN server settings, created a user, downloaded and installed the OpenVPN client on a remote host, and confirmed our connection.

## 5.5.3 Configuring a VPN Client

### Configuring a VPN Client 00:00-00:10

In this demonstration, we're going to create a client VPN connection on a Windows 10 system.

### Configure VPN 00:10-02:19

There's VPN software built into Windows 10 that works really well. We're going to go down to the Start button and choose the Settings option. Inside the Settings option, notice that there's a category for Network and Internet, and inside of this category, there's a node for VPN. We can create a VPN connection, and we can choose to allow this VPN connection over metered networks.

This means if we're connecting, maybe via cellular, and this is going to be a charge per gigabyte of data that we transfer, we're going to permit the VPN over this type of connection. We'll also permit the VPN while we're roaming with the system by default, so we'll choose the add a VPN connection button, and then we can choose the VPN provider.

Let's say that we're using the built-in functionality of VPNs with Windows as our VPN provider, and we're going to say this is ‘CorpNetVPN'. Then we'll provide the IP address or the fully qualified domain name as long as it's registered in your DNS system for the VPN server. This is typically information that you're going to provide your end users so that they can successfully make the VPN connection.

For the VPN type, often, we'll configure it to be automatic, and we'll have given the instructions to this client for how to connect. But notice you can also configure it so that it's preset for the VPN type. A popular option here is IKE version 2. This would be used with IPSec VPN connections, for example.

You can easily use a smart card, a one-time password, a certificate, or a username and password for verification. We'll do a dfellows username and a password that's extra strong. Once the correct information is entered, we'll save it, and now have a CorpNet VPN connection. We can connect at any time we'd like, or we could go in the advanced options and edit the properties of this connection, clear the sign-in info, or specify that we need to use a VPN proxy. This is a device we'd go to for establishing the VPN on our behalf.

### Remove VPN 02:19-02:29

We can easily remove any VPN connection that we've created inside of this settings area, provided that we have the appropriate permissions inside of Windows 10.

### Summary 02:29-02:41

That's it for this demo. We discussed how easy it is to establish a VPN connection inside of Windows 10.

## 5.5.6 VPN Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- VPN basics
- VPN and wireless networks

### VPN Basics

A virtual private network (VPN) is a remote-access connection that uses encryption to securely send data over an untrusted network. By using a VPN, you can take advantage of an existing internet connection to securely communicate between devices. When working with VPNs, consider the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    A VPN provides an alternative to:
    <ul>
     <li>
      WAN connections
     </li>
     <li>
      Connections that use telephone lines and a remote access server
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    VPNs work by using a Tunneling Protocol that encrypts packet contents and encapsulates those packets.
    <ul>
     <li>
      The encapsulated packets are routed through the internet using the information in the packet header.
     </li>
     <li>
      When the packet reaches the destination device, the outer wrapping encapsulating the packets and the encryption is
        removed.
     </li>
     <li>
      Only the destination device is allowed to remove the wrapping and restore the packet to its original form.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    The following are two styles of VPN tunnels commonly used:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Full tunnel, which routes all of a user's network traffic through the VPN 
		tunnel. This can sometimes send traffic that is not necessary.
     </li>
     <li>
      Split tunnel, which routes only certain types of traffic, usually determined by destination IP address, through the VPN
        tunnel. All other traffic is passed through the normal internet connection.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    VPNs can be implemented in the following ways:
    <ul>
     <li>
      A host-to-host VPN allows an individual host connected to the internet to establish a VPN connection to another host on
        the internet. Both devices must be configured for a VPN connection and have the software to encrypt and encapsulate the
        packets.
     </li>
     <li>
      A site-to-site VPN uses routers on the edge of each site. The routers are configured for a VPN connection and encrypt
        and decrypt the packets being passed between the sites. With this configuration, individual hosts are unaware of the
        VPN.
     </li>
     <li>
      A remote-access VPN uses a server (called a VPN concentrator) configured to accept VPN connections from individual
        hosts.
      <ul>
       <li>
        The VPN concentrator is located on the edge of a network.
       </li>
       <li>
        The VPN concentrator establishes multiple connections with multiple hosts.
       </li>
       <li>
        The individual hosts must be able to establish a VPN connection.
       </li>
       <li>
        The hosts can access resources on the VPN server or the private network using the VPN connection.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </li>
     <li>
      An always-on VPN employs the concept that a user is always on the VPN, whether physically within the LAN or
        remotely. There is no turning it on or off. All traffic is basically fully tunneled.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Tunnel endpoints are devices that can encrypt and decrypt packets. When you create a VPN, you establish a security
    association between the two tunnel endpoints. These endpoints create a secure virtual communication channel. Only the
    destination tunnel endpoint can unwrap packets and decrypt the packet contents.
   </li>
   <li>
    Routers use the decrypted packet headers to deliver the packet to the destination device. Intermediate routers along the
    path cannot read the encrypted packet contents.
   </li>
  </ul>

> When implementing a VPN, be sure to:
>
> - Select a protocol that is supported by all devices that need to encrypt and encapsulate packets.
> - Open the appropriate ports to allow VPN traffic through the firewall.

### VPN and Wireless Networks

VPNs can also be used to help secure connections made over open wireless networks. Many establishments, such as airports, hotels, and restaurants, provide unsecured public Wi-Fi access. Because encryption is not used to secure the wireless connection, many users are hesitant to use these networks. In most cases, this hesitancy is warranted. However, it is generally considered acceptable to use a VPN connection to securely transfer data over an open Wi-Fi network. As long as strong tunneling ciphers and protocols are used, the VPN provides sufficient encryption to secure the connection even though the wireless network itself is not encrypted. It is recommended that you use IPsec or SSL to secure the VPN because these protocols are relatively secure. Avoid using PPTP with MS-CHAPv2 as this configuration setup is no longer considered secure.

> If you are using a VPN over an open wireless network and need to access a secure website, be sure your browser's HTTPS requests go through the VPN connection. To conserve VPN bandwidth and improve latency, many VPN solutions automatically reroute web browsing traffic through the client's default network connection instead of through the VPN tunnel. This behavior would result in HTTP/HTTPS traffic being transmitted over the insecure open wireless network instead of through the secure VPN tunnel.

## 5.5.7 VPN Protocol Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- VPN Tunneling Protocol
- VPN protocol comparison

### VPN Tunneling Protocol

A VPN uses a Tunneling Protocol that encrypts packet contents and wraps them in an unencrypted packet. The Tunneling Protocol (also referred to as the VPN Protocol) identifies the methods that devices use to establish the VPN connection and encrypt the data. The three types of protocols used by VPNs are:

- Carrier Protocol (such as IP).
- Tunneling Protocol (such as PPTP or L2TP).
- Passenger Protocol (for the data being transmitted).

Many networks make use of a piece of hardware called a VPN concentrator. VPN concentrators are advanced routers that can create and maintain many secure connections to the network through VPN tunnels.

### VPN Protocol Comparison

The following table compares the common VPN tunneling protocols.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Protocol
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Point-to-Point Tunneling
     </td>
     <td>
      Point-to-Point Tunneling Protocol (PPTP) was one of the first VPN protocols and was developed by Microsoft.
      <br>
      <br>
      PPTP does the following:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Uses standard authentication protocols, such as Challenge-Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) or Password
            Authentication Protocol (PAP)
       </li>
       <li>
        Supports TCP/IP only
       </li>
       <li>
        Encapsulates other LAN protocols and carries the data securely over an IP network
       </li>
       <li>
        Uses Microsoft's MPPE for data encryption
       </li>
       <li>
        Is supported by most operating systems and servers
       </li>
       <li>
        Uses TCP port 1723
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Layer 2 Forwarding
     </td>
     <td>
      Layer 2 Forwarding (L2F) is a VPN technology developed by Cisco that:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Operates at the Data Link layer (Layer 2)
       </li>
       <li>
        Offers mutual authentication
       </li>
       <li>
        Does not encrypt data
       </li>
       <li>
        Merged with PPTP to create L2TP
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Layer 2 Tunneling
     </td>
     <td>
      Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol (L2TP) is an open standard for secure multi-protocol routing.
      <p>
       L2TP does the following:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Operates at the Data Link layer (Layer 2)
       </li>
       <li>
        Supports multiple protocols (not just IP)
       </li>
       <li>
        Uses IPsec for encryption. Combining L2TP with IPsec (called L2TP/IPsec) provides:
        <ul>
         <li>
          Per-packet data-origin authentication (non-repudiation)
         </li>
         <li>
          Replay protection
         </li>
         <li>
          Data confidentiality
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Is not supported by older operating systems
       </li>
       <li>
        Uses TCP port 1701 and UDP port 500
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Internet Protocol Security
     </td>
     <td>
      Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) provides authentication and encryption, and 
			it can be used in conjunction with L2TP or by
          itself as a VPN solution. IPsec includes two protocols that provide different features.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Authentication Header (AH) provides authentication features. Use AH to enable authentication with IPsec.
       </li>
       <li>
        Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP) provides data encryption. Use ESP to encrypt data.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <div class="info" data-block="
       If you use AH alone, data is not encrypted.
      "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
       If you use AH alone, data is not encrypted.
      </span></div></div></div></div>
      <p>
       IPsec has two modes of operation. They are based on the relationship of the communicating devices to each other.
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Transport Mode is used for end-to-end encryption of data. The packet data is protected, but the header is left
            intact, allowing intermediary devices (such as routers) to examine the packet header and use the information in routing
            packets.
       </li>
       <li>
        Tunnel Mode is used for link-to-link communications. Both the packet contents and the header are encrypted.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       IPsec can be used to secure communications such as:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Host-to-host communications within a LAN
       </li>
       <li>
        VPN communications through the internet, either by itself or in conjunction with the L2TP VPN 
			Protocol
       </li>
       <li>
        Any traffic supported by the IP protocol, including web, email, Telnet, file transfer, SNMP traffic, 
			and
            countless others
       </li>
      </ul>
      Be aware of the following additional characteristics of IPsec:
      <ul>
       <li>
        It functions at the Network layer (Layer 3) of the OSI model
       </li>
       <li>
        It uses either digital certificates or pre-shared keys
       </li>
       <li>
        It generally can't be used when a NAT proxy is deployed
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Secure Sockets Layer
     </td>
     <td>
      The Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Protocol has long been used to secure traffic generated by other IP protocols, such as
          HTTP, FTP, and email. SSL can also be used as a VPN solution, typically in a remote-access scenario.
      <p>
       SSL does the following:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Authenticates the server to the client using public key cryptography and digital certificates
       </li>
       <li>
        Encrypts the entire communication session
       </li>
       <li>
        Uses port 443, which is a port that is often already open in most firewalls
       </li>
      </ul>
      Implementations that use SSL for VPN tunneling include Microsoft's SSTP and Cisco's SSL VPN.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Transport Layer Security
     </td>
     <td>
      The Transport Layer Security (TLS) Protocol works in a similar way to SSL, even though they are not interoperable. When
          securing a connection with a VPN, TLS:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Authenticates the server to the client, using public key cryptography and digital certificates
       </li>
       <li>
        Encrypts the entire communication session
       </li>
       <li>
        Uses port 443 or port 30
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>
