---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.4 Network Address Translation
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Why do private networks have a limited range of IP addresses?
    </li>
    <li>
     How has Network Address Translation (NAT) extended the use of IPv4?
    </li>
    <li>
     How does a NAT router associate a port number with a request from a private host?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the three ways NAT can be implemented?
    </li>
    <li>
     Where is NAT typically implemented?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure NAT.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Network Address Translation
    </td>
    <td>
     A method used by routers to translate multiple private IP addresses into a single registered IP
        address.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Internal network
    </td>
    <td>
     The private network where devices use private IP addresses to communicate with each other.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Internal address
    </td>
    <td>
     The private IP address that is translated to an external IP address by NAT.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     External network
    </td>
    <td>
     The public network that a NAT device connects to with a single public IP address.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     External address
    </td>
    <td>
     The public IP address that NAT uses to communicate with the external network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Port Address Translation
     <br>
     (PAT)
    </td>
    <td>
     An extension of NAT that associates a port number with a request from a private host.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.1 Harden Physical Access
     <blockquote>
      2.1.5 Configure Network Address Translation (NAT)
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Network appliances
       <ul>
        <li>
         Firewalls
         <ul>
          <li>
           Network address translation (NAT) gateway
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.4.1 Network Address Translation

### Network Address Translation 00:00-00:36

Let's spend a few minutes talking about network address translation or NAT. Registered IP addresses are both expensive and in extremely short supply. Yet, every single host on a public network, such as the Internet, must use a unique registered IP address. Once assigned, no other host can use the same IP address. Yet, with all of mobile devices, like tablets and smart phones, IP addresses are in higher demand than they ever have been. It's not uncommon for a single user to require 3 or more IP addresses for all of their devices.

### Reason for NAT Implementation 00:36-00:59

Because registered IP addresses are in short supply, there are a couple of options to dealing with the expanding demand. The best solution is to implement IP version six, which dramatically increases the available IP addresses for hosts. Even after nearly 20 years IPv6 has not been widely implemented yet. Instead, most system administrators opt to use network address translation (NAT).

### Benefits of Using NAT 00:59-01:32

NAT has been broadly implemented because it's easy to use and works relatively well.

One of the problems with IPv6 is the fact that the addresses used with IPv6 are really long and difficult to work with. Network address translation, on the other hand, allows you to continue using familiar IPv4 addresses.

Network address translation allows you to use a limited number of registered IP addresses for your entire organization by translating many unregistered IP addresses from your internal local area network into a limited number of registered IP addresses.

### How NAT Works 01:32-06:42

Let's take a look at how NAT works.

NAT is usually implemented on a default gateway router. The router has two or more network interfaces. One is connected to a public network that requires registered IP addresses. The other is connected to the private internal network that doesn't require registered IP addresses. Using NAT, we don't need a registered IP address for every single host inside of our private network. Instead, we'll only need a public IP address for the NAT router itself.

The NAT router in this scenario might have a registered IP address assigned on the public side of the router. This is a registered IP address. No other host on the public network can have that same address. This address has to be assigned by an ISP and must be paid for.

The interface on the private network doesn't need a registered IP address. Instead, it can use a private IP address along with all of the other network hosts on the private network. The following address ranges have been reserved for private networks:

- Class-A: 10.0.0.0 through 10.255.255.255
- Class-B: 172.16.0.0 through 172.31.255.255
- Class-C: 192.168.0.0 through 192.168.255.255

These private IP addresses are non-routable. Routers on the public network are configured, by default, to not route any of these IP addresses. Because these IP addresses are not registered and are non-routable, you can use any of these IP addressing schemes on your private network. For example, if you decided to use a Class A private IP addressing scheme, you could potentially have millions of hosts on your private network all assigned IP addresses from this IP address range. When using NAT, only a limited number of registered IP addresses would be required. The NAT routers will translate the private IP addresses into registered IP addresses.

Suppose we have a host on the private network that has an IP address of 192.168.1.10 and the private side of the NAT router has an IP address of 192.168.1.1 assigned. This is the default gateway router for the network segment. When this host, 192.168.1.10, tries to request resources from an IP address that's not on this network segment, it automatically knows that it needs to forward that request to the default gateway, which is a NAT router.

When the NAT router receives that request, it strips off the source address of the transmission, 192.168.1.10, and replaces the source address with its public IP address (137.65.7.2). It then sends it to the public network where the request is routed to the appropriate host on the Internet. The host on the public network that receives this request, the recipient of the transmission, doesn't see that request came from 192.168.1.10. Instead, it sees it coming from the NAT router itself, 137.65.7.2.

The receiving host responds and sends the requested information back. It sends the response back to 137.65.7.2, so the request returns to the NAT router. The NAT router changes the recipient address of the transmission to the original requesting host on the private network (192.168.1.10) and forwards it through its 192.168.1.1 interface to the host that originally requested the information.

The NAT router may have to process thousands of translation requests at any given time. When information is returned from the public network, it keeps track of which request goes to which host on the internal network using Port Address Translation (PAT).

When a request is sent, the NAT router sends it from a randomly selected dynamic port on its public IP address. The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) has assigned the port range 49,152 to 65,535 to be used as dynamic ports. The NAT router picks one of these dynamic ports and forwards the request out on the public network from the selected port.

Each request that comes through for address translation is assigned to a different dynamic port. The NAT router keeps a table in memory called the translation table that temporarily maps a particular port to a particular request from a specific host source IP on the private network. That way, when the data returns from the host on the internet, it returns to the port from which it was sent. The NAT router then looks at its translation table and identifies which private host address is currently associated with that port number. Therefore, it knows that information coming back from the public network needs to be forwarded to the private network to this particular host with this IP address.

The NAT router maps the IP address of the originating host to a particular dynamic port and stores it in the translation table. By doing this, it can keep track of which returning information goes to which host on the private network.

### Many-to-one NAT 06:42-07:11

There are several different network address translation implementations. The most common implementation is called network address and port translation or many-to-one NAT, also called IP Masquerade. Many-to-one NAT works just like we described where multiple internal private hosts are mapped to a limited number of registered IP addresses. Many different private host are represented by one registered IP address, hence, the term many-to-one NAT.

### Static NAT 07:11-08:57

There are other ways to implement NAT. For example, static NAT (also called one-to-one NAT) allows you to manually configure a permanent one-to-one mapping in the translation table. By doing this, we map a particular host with a private IP address to a particular port on the NAT router. This is called port forwarding. For example, we can configure this private IP address to be permanently mapped to port 50,001.

This has some useful benefits. One benefit with many-to-one NAT is the fact that it's a one-way implementation. Data can come from the internal private network and be sent to the public network, but not vice versa. If we have a Web server on our private network and someone out here on the Internet wants to connect to it, they can't get through the NAT router because there is a many-to-one relationship between the registered IP address and the various hosts on the private network. The ports that are used to keep track of this host are transient; they change all the time.

With Static NAT, you create a permanent mapping. In this case, 192.168.1.10 is permanently assigned to this port number. This allows port forwarding. A host on the Internet can establish a connection to the host on the internal network through this permanent port mapping. The NAT router knows where this host resides. It has a permanent port assignment.

NAT routers are very useful and have a lot of benefits. They allow us to use a very limited number of scarce registered IP addresses for an entire network full of hosts. NAT routers also obscure the private network from the public network to a degree. From the public network's point of view, all the traffic is coming from the registered IP address on the NAT router. The public network can't really see the private network.

### Security Issues with NAT 08:57-09:34

An important design consideration to remember when designing a NAT implementation is that NAT is not a firewall. Sometimes NAT is regarded as a firewall because the public network only sees the registered IP address of the NAT router. This isn't correct, because NAT only acts as a translator. Only a real firewall can offer the degree of network security that you need.

Sometimes administrators think that the NAT router completely obscures the private network from the public network. It does but only superficially. You can use a variety of different IP protocol analysis tools on the public side of the NAT router to gain information about what the internal network looks like.

### Summary 09:34-09:54

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about network address translation or NAT. We began by discussing what NAT is and how it works. We talked about some of the benefits of using NAT and ended by discussing some of the security issues surrounding NAT.

## 5.4.2 Configure NAT

### Configure NAT 00:00-00:53

In this demo, we're going to configure NAT, or Network Address Translation. We're going to allow traffic from our LAN network to go to our DMZ network. The first thing we're going to do is configure NAT to allow Remote Desktop Protocol from this machine here, with the IP address of 10.10.10.10, through the firewall, to PC01.

The second thing we'll do is configure NAT to allow us to use SSH from our 10.10.10.10 machine through the firewall to our Kali Linux machine with the IP of 172.16.1.6.

The third thing we'll do is modify our Remote Desktop Protocol NAT rule to use a custom port through the LAN. But when it enters the DMZ, it'll use a custom port number. Let's get started.

### Configure RDP NAT Rule 00:53-03:29

I'm at the dashboard of my pfSense security appliance. I want to come down and confirm that I have my three interfaces here. I have my WAN, LAN, and DMZ, and they all look good.

We'll go up to Firewall and select NAT from the menu. This takes us to the Port Forward tab by default. We'll go over and click on the Add button with the up arrow. We don't have anything configured yet, so it doesn't matter which button we click on.

Okay, so we're doing Remote Desktop Protocol first. We want to configure the interface for the LAN interface, so I'll pick that from the list.

Our protocol will be TCP, but I'll click on the list so you can see all the protocols that we can choose from.

For the destination, we want to use a LAN address here.

For our Destination Port Range, Microsoft Remote Desktop Protocol is listed under MSRDP. I can pick that from the list, and it'll use the default port of 3389. Now if, from some reason, the service isn't listed, we can just put in a custom port number. Even though MSRDP is listed, I could just put in the port here, ‘3389'.

Now for the Redirect Target port. This is where the traffic goes when it leaves the firewall. Let's look at our diagram again. Here, I have PC01. This particular PC is getting its IP via DHCP, so let's jump over to that machine for a minute and confirm the IP address. The preferred method would be to have either static IPs or reserved IPs configured with DHCP, but I like doing things the hard way. I'm on PC01, and I'll open a command prompt and enter ‘ipconfig'. My IP is 172.16.1.101. That's the IP I need to enter in my settings. Let's go back and do that now.

I'm back here on pfSense, and I'll type in ‘172.16.1.101'. The target port is going to be MSRDP again. My description will be ‘RDP from LAN to PC01'. Now, this next part is really cool. With a lot of devices, when you create a NAT rule, you have to remember to go in and create a rule in the firewall to allow it through. With pfSense, under Filter rule association, you can have it add the associated filter rule automatically. So yes, we certainly like this, and whenever possible, we want to use it. Click Save and then click Apply Changes.

### Confirm RDP Rule 03:29-05:22

Now, just to confirm, let's look and see if our firewall rule was created. I'm sure it's there, but I like to verify things before I rely on them. Go to Firewall and then to Rules. Now make sure you're on the LAN interface. Right down here, at the bottom, is the rule that was just created. It shows the destination IP and port.

All right, let's see that this is working with our own eyes. Let's go ahead and see if we can use Remote Desktop Protocol to get from PC02 on the LAN over to PC01, over on the DMZ.

I'm actually doing all my work from PC02, so this is the machine on the LAN. Let's open up Remote Desktop and see if we can make a connection. This part can be a little confusing. My LAN doesn't know anything about my DMZ. It doesn't know about the computers there or the IP address scheme. It's a different network. I need to put in the IP address of my LAN gateway, which is 10.10.10.1. When I hit that address, my NAT rule will say, "Hey, I need to take this RDP connection, translate it to the 172.16 network, and forward it to PC01." Let's go back to PC01 on the LAN and click on Connect. Getting a prompt for the password is a great sign. I'll type in my password and press Enter.

Okay. It took just a few seconds, but I'm connected to PC01 over on the DMZ. My command prompt is still open, so just to be sure, I'll do an ipconfig, and it looks great. If we look up here, the IP is 10.10.10.1. That's the IP address of my pfSense, and it's where this machine thinks the connection is originating from because of NAT.

### Configure SSH to Use NAT 05:22-07:04

Let's create another NAT rule. Let's go back to pfSense and go to Firewall > NAT.

Let's look at the diagram again. This time, I want to use NAT to allow us to use SSH on port 22 from PC02 through the firewall to our Kali Linux machine with the IP of 172.16.1.6. I have the program Putty, and I need to do some command line configurations on this machine occasionally.

Back to my pfSense. Let's click on Add. I'm on the NAT > Port Forward > Edit page again. Once again, for Interface, I'll pick LAN. SSH does use TCP, so I'll leave that set to TCP. Destination is the LAN address, just like Remote Desktop. Destination Port Range will be SSH from the list. Remember that the IP for the Kali machine was ‘172.16.1.6'. Redirect Target Port is also SSH. And for the description, I'll type, "Allow SSH from LAN to Kali on DMZ'. Once again, we can have it create the rule for us. Click on Save and then Apply Changes.

I want to confirm that my rule is there, just like we did for RDP. Go to Firewall > Rules. Make sure that I'm on the LAN interface. Here, at the bottom, is my SSH rule that was created along with the NAT rule. I have my IP, Port 22, and my description.

### Edit NAT for Remote Desktop Protocol 07:04-09:19

All right. I've switched back over to NAT > Port Forwarding. The final thing I want to do is edit our Remote Desktop Protocol NAT settings. Under Actions, I'll click on the Edit icon. That takes us to the Edit page.

I'll scroll down. Under Destination Port Range, I'm going to change this to a custom port. I'm going to put in 5151 in both places here. Click on Save. Let's go to our diagram, and I'll explain what we're doing.

Over on the DMZ, I have a web server, and I also have my Windows 10 machine. I want to get to both of them using Remote Desktop Protocol. But when I enter the IP 10.10.10.1, NAT is configured to send the traffic to PC01 on the DMZ. So, the question is, how can I use RDP to get to a different machine? Well, that's where I can change the port that's hitting the 10.10.10.1 IP address with a custom port. Instead of using the default port of 3389, I'm going to use 5151. So, in this scenario, I'm editing the existing NAT configuration to have traffic go to PC01 on the DMZ.

I'm back on PC02. Like I said before, this is the PC that I'm using to configure pfSense from. I'll hit Apply Changes, and our NAT rule has been updated. Before ending the demo, I just want to confirm that this is working and show you how to use a custom port with RDP.

I'll open up Remote Desktop Connection again. At the end of the IP address for my pfSence, 10.10.10.1, I want to add a colon (:) and follow that with the port number, ‘5151'. This is called a socket. Some call it a network socket or address socket. Now I'll click Connect, enter in my password, and wait for the connection to complete.

We've connected to our PC over on the DMZ once again, but this time using a custom port on the LAN side. I'll do an ipconfig just for the fun of it, and we're good to go.

### Summary 09:19-09:39

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we created NAT rules. First, we created a Remote Desktop connection rule. Then we created a NAT rule for SSH. Finally, we modified our Remote Desktop rule to use a custom port on our LAN.

## 5.4.4 NAT Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Network Address Translation (NAT) routers
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT implementations
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT management considerations
   </li>
  </ul>

### Network Address Translation Routers

A Network Address Translation router translates multiple private addresses into a single, registered IP address. NAT helps address the shortage of registered IPv4 addresses.

<ul>
   <li>
    The internet is classified as a public network. All devices on a public network must have a registered IP address
      assigned by an Internet Service Provider (ISP).
   </li>
   <li>
    An internal network is classified as a private network. All devices on a private network use private IP addresses
      internally but share a single, public IP address when accessing the internet.
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT is typically implemented on a default gateway router.
   </li>
   <li>
    A router running NAT modifies the source IP addresses contained within the IP packet. It replaces private addresses in
      the packet with a public IP address.
   </li>
   <li>
    The private network can use IPv4 addresses in the following ranges that have been reserved for private use (meaning they
      are not used by hosts on the internet).
    <ul>
     <li>
      10.0.0.0 to 10.255.255.255 (known as class A private network addresses)
     </li>
     <li>
      172.16.0.0 to 172.31.255.255 (known as class B private network addresses)
     </li>
     <li>
      192.168.0.0 to 192.168.255.255 (known as class C private network addresses)
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    IPv6 reserves all addresses beginning with a binary 1111 1110 11 (hexadecimal FEC0::/48) for private IP networks. This
      address range is called the site-local address range.
    <div class="info" data-block="
     Most routers recognize addresses in these ranges as private IP address and do not route
      them.
    "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
     Most routers recognize addresses in these ranges as private IP address and do not route
      them.
    </span></div></div></div></div>
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT translates a host's private IP address into a public IP address that can be used by the internet or other public
      networks.
    <ul>
     <li>
      The NAT router uses Port Address Translation (PAT) to associate a port number with a request from a private host.
     </li>
     <li>
      Returning data is sent to the port number specified in the request.
     </li>
     <li>
      The NAT router uses its translation table to determine the private host associated with that port number and forwards
        the data to the appropriate host.
     </li>
     <li>
      Most routers that are configured with NAT are really performing PAT. NAT is typically used synonymously with PAT.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
  </ul>

### NAT Implementations

NAT can be implemented in one of three ways:

<ul>
   <li>
    Network Address and Port Translation (also referred to as Dynamic NAT, Many-to-One NAT, and IP Masquerade) support
      multiple private hosts on one public IP address.
    <ul>
     <li>
      Dynamic NAT allows internal (private) hosts to contact external (public) hosts but not vice versa. External hosts
        cannot initiate communications with internal hosts.
     </li>
     <li>
      This is the implementation of NAT that is most frequently used.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Static NAT (also referred to as One-to-One NAT and Port Forwarding) maps an internal IP address to a static port
      assignment or even to a specific public IP address.
    <ul>
     <li>
      Static mapping allows external hosts to contact internal hosts.
     </li>
     <li>
      Static NAT is typically used to make a server on the private network (such as a web server) available on the
        internet.
     </li>
     <li>
      External hosts contact the internal server using the public IP address and the static port.
     </li>
     <li>
      On a Windows system, the public IP address is reserved for a specific host on the private network.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Dynamic and Static NAT, in which two IP addresses are given to the public NAT interface (one for Dynamic NAT and one for
      Static NAT), allows traffic to flow in both directions.
   </li>
  </ul>

### NAT Management Considerations

Be aware of the following NAT facts:

<ul>
   <li>
    NAT should not be considered an acceptable form of network security, although it provides some security for the private
      network by hiding the private addresses. For a more secure solution, combine NAT with packet filters or firewalls.
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT does not provide improved throughput for traffic. To improve throughput for traffic, implement a solution like a
      proxy server.
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT supports a limit of 5,000 concurrent connections.
   </li>
   <li>
    NAT routers operate at the Network layer of the OSI Model.
   </li>
   <li>
    A NAT router can act as a limited-function DHCP server, assigning addresses to private hosts.
   </li>
   <li>
    A NAT router can forward DNS requests to the internet.
   </li>
   <li>
    Because NAT changes packet headers, IPSec might not work correctly through NAT. IPSec detects changes to packet headers
      as part of the security process.
   </li>
  </ul>
