---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.6 Web Threat Protection
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What is the difference between a web filter and web threat filtering?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which web threat protections prevent a user from visiting restricted websites?
    </li>
    <li>
     Where are spam filters typically located on a network?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the pros and cons of using an all-in-one device?
    </li>
    <li>
     How can proxies be used for web threat protection?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure web threat protection.
- Configure URL blocking.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Web filter
    </td>
    <td>
     A content filter that prevents users from visiting restricted websites.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Web threat filter
    </td>
    <td>
     A filter that prevents users from visiting websites with known malicious content.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Spam
    </td>
    <td>
     Irrelevant or inappropriate email sent to a large number of recipients.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Spam filter
    </td>
    <td>
     An email filter that prevents the delivery of irrelevant or inappropriate email known as spam.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Anti-phishing software
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that scans content to identify and dispose of phishing attempts.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     3.2 Implement Application Defenses
     <blockquote>
      3.2.4 Configure Email Filters and Settings
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Spam
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      4.4 Given an incident, apply mitigation techniques or controls to secure an environment.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Configuration changes
       <ul>
        <li>
         Content filter/URL filter
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.6.1 Web Threat Protection

### Web Threat Protection 00:00-00:29

Organizations face many threats. In this lesson, I'll go over web threats, which are any threat that comes from or utilizes the internet.

Web threats come in many forms, such as mass emails, bad email links, and websites specifically targeted to exploit security weaknesses. Even the most knowledgeable users can be compromised by nefarious means, so organizations should implement solutions that help prevent any threat from ever reaching their target.

### Web Threat Devices 00:29-01:31

Any organization that has connectivity to the internet is usually compromised by web threats at some point. Companies might decide to implement devices to help combat these attacks, saving the company money, time, and embarrassment in the end. These are usually hardware-based devices designed to thwart specific attack types. Depending on a company's attack surface, size, and budget, the best course of action might be an all-in-one solution where a single device combats several different threat types. This is otherwise known as Unified Threat Protection, or UTM. In essence, it's a single-purposed device to combat each specific web threat.

Whether you choose an all-in-one device solution or not, network placement is the same for the most part. These devices are often placed in the demilitarized zone, or DMZ, if your organization employs one. If not, it's most likely placed on the inside of the internal network's firewall. The company controls the devices with policies that define which traffic is good and should be let through and which is bad and should be blocked.

### Website Filter 01:31-02:24

The first device we'll discuss is a website filter. A website filter's primary function is to prevent users from accessing restricted websites. Typically, you restrict websites using blacklists that enumerate the sites network management has deemed inappropriate. This process helps to enforce an organization's internet use policy. The website filter examines requests from clients for internet resources like websites, emails, and file downloads. If a requested resource matches one on the web filter's blacklist, the request is denied.

A web filter only blocks sites based on their URL; it doesn't block based on content. That's the primary reason a web filter usually works in conjunction with a web threat filter. Website filtering is fine when you're trying to enforce website restrictions, but it's a manual process that's difficult to maintain. Also, it doesn't protect against potentially malicious websites.

### Web Content Filter 02:24-03:15

A more practical solution is for you to implement a web content filter. A web content filter prevents a user from visiting a website with cataegories that you deem inappropriate or potentially malicious. With a web content filter, you can elect to permit or deny website categories such as shopping, gambling, and adult sites.

While your network management has the choice to block selected website categories, the content filter also protects you against pre-determined harmful websites. You can also add sites as you see fit since websites are constantly popping up. In 2018, for example, over 14,000 websites a day were created. Obviously, not all were legitimate. To track all these new sites, organizations typically subscribe to some kind of update service. Website data is constantly updated, so subscribing to one of these services is a must.

### Spam Filter 03:15-04:30

Spam is annoying email traffic that wastes resources. It wastes disk space since the data must be stored on email servers, and it wastes time since someone has to deal with it. Often, junk mail isn't malicious. For example, it might just contain ads, marketing, or other benign content. That being said, spam can also contain malware and malicious site links.

We saw some filtering solutions that are geared towards users making requests. Spam email is generated outside of the production network, so the solution must act on data coming into the network. The most common location for the solution exists inside the network's DMZ. Generally, you want incoming mail redirected to the spam filter and analyzed. The filter should look for known spammers, an abnormally large number of recipients, or malicious links contained within the email message.

You often see spam filters paired with virus scanners. Often, spammers attach files that contain viruses or malware. A virus scanner examines attached files and blocks them if they contain these damaging components. Remember that spammers and their techniques are constantly changing, so you need to be flexible as a developer or administrator. Keep your spam filter and virus scanner updated with definitions. The good news is that this is often done automatically.

### Phishing Filter 04:30-05:38

Arguably, the most prolific problem facing users today are phishing attacks. Undoubtedly, you've received some iteration of a phishing email that attempts to steal your personal information. This happens through an email that seems legitimate and is written with some urgency, tricking a user into clicking on a link to change their password or supply personal information. In actuality, the user is redirected to a malicious website where the information is stored for later nefarious use. There are many types of phishing types, such as spear phishing and whaling, but they all try to mislead a user into divulging confidential details.

A phishing filter or anti-phishing device detects potential phishing messages and prevents them from reaching the end user. These filters also work on outgoing messages that happen to get through. For example, say a user sees a message from PayPal in which they're instructed to click on an embedded message link. If the message is legitimate, the link should obviously take the user to PayPal's official website. But if the message is a phishing attack, the link takes the user to an illegitimate website. The phishing filter attempts to discover any anomalies and prevent a bad redirection from taking place.

### Summary 05:38-06:17

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we reviewed some different web threats types. We also looked at the various types of web filters that you can implement to protect yourself against these threats. You shouldn't take the decision to utilize an all-in-one solution or an individualized device approach lightly. It's important to remember that it's easy to do one thing well, but it's very difficult to do many things

well together. In other words, using separate devices is most often a better choice. But if budget is an issue, a UTM solution might be best for your particular circumstance.

## 5.6.2 Configuring Web Threat Protection

### Configuring Web Threat Protection 00:00-00:23

In this demo, we're going to block and filter websites, domains, and other web content. There are numerous tools that you can use to do this. Some are commercial tools that you pay for, and others are open-source tools you can use for free. In this demo, we're going to use pfBlockerNG on our pfSense appliance.

### Review Prerequisites 00:23-01:04

Before we get started, it's important to configure two rules for our DNS. We want to force our users to use our DNS, and not someone else's. Why does this matter? Because we're going to block sites based on URLs. We'll confirm that by looking at our firewall rules. Under LAN, I've already created two rules. The first is allowing DNS to my pfSense appliance, and the second is blocking all other DNS connections. So, basically, you're going to use my pfSense for DNS, or you're not going to have any DNS.

Creating rules is not part of this lesson. We're just here to confirm that our rules have been created.

### Install pfBlockerNG 01:04-01:54

Now, pfBlockerNG is not installed on pfSense by default. It's a package that's installed from Package Manger on pfSense. Installing packages on pfSense is very simple, so let's run through that process quickly. I'll go to System > Package Manager. Choose Available Packages and search for ‘pfBlockerNG'. I see two here, and it looks like there's a new one in development, so I'm going to stick with the first one for this demo.

Click Install and then Confirm to install the pfBlockerNG package. This might take a few minutes to finish, so be patient, and don't refresh the page while you're waiting.

It looks like it's done, so I'll scroll down, and we have success. pfBlockerNG is installed.

### Configure pfBlockerNG 01:54-03:02

Next, we need to configure it. Let's go to Firewall > pfBlockerNG. If we'd gone and lookced for pfBlockerNG before we started, it wouldn't have been there. It was added when we installed the package. Click on it to go to the settings.

The first thing we need to do on this page is check this box, Enable pfBlockerNG.

We want to make sure that Keep Settings is also checked. This will keep our settings if pfBlockerNG is updated with a new version. We certainly don't want to reconfigure it every time that happens.

For our Cron settings, I'll just pick every two hours. If you're not familiar with Cron, it's a Linux utility that schedules jobs to run at specific times.

We can leave the next several settings at their defaults. I'll go down to Interface/Rules Configuration. The first thing I'll do here is set our Inbound firewall Rules to WAN and make sure the Rule Action is set to Block. For our Outbound Firewall Rules, we'll set this to LAN and set the Rule Action to Reject.

Now I'll scroll down and click Save.

### Configure DNSBL 03:02-04:25

Now we want to configure DNSBL, or DNS Block Lists. I'll come up here and click on the DNSBL tab. The first thing to do is to check the Enable DNSBL checkbox. If Enable TLD is checked, uncheck it. We won't use this while it's still in Beta.

Now, for our DNSBL Virtual IP, we need to pick an IP address that's isolated from our network. This is an IP where rejected DNS requests are basically sent to die. For my test network, I'll put in ‘10.10.200.1'. For DNSBL Listening Port, I'll leave the default port. For DNSBL SSL Listening Port, I'll leave that at the default also.

Scroll down a bit until we get to DNSBL IP Firewall Rule Settings. Here, under List Action, we want to set this to Deny Both. For Enable Logging, we want to choose Enable so that logs are recorded.

We'll skip over Advanced Inbound and Outbound Firewall Rule Settings and Alexa Whitelist. But under Custom Domain Whitelist, we can enter in some URLs. Just as an example, let's put in a few URLs. I'll type ‘www.google.com', ‘play.google.com', and also ‘drive.google.com'.

Come down and click Save.

### DNSBL Feeds 04:25-06:40

Now we need to go to the DNSBL Feeds tab and then click on Add. I'm going to add a few DNS block lists. There are hundreds of these lists out on the internet. They're typically categorized so you can pick and choose what to block. We're going to grab some that are hosted on Github, so I'll open up another tab and type in the URL for the site. The site says that it's a repository with several reputable hosts files that are merged into a single unified hosts file with duplicates removed. They've done a lot of work for us so we don't have to—thanks, Github!

I'll scroll down here and find the one for Social. I'll click on the link, come up here, and copy it to the clipboard. Now let's jump back over to my pfBlocker configuration page. I'll click into the DNS Group Name field and type in ‘DNSBLockListGroup'. For Description, I'll enter ‘DNS Block List'. For Source, I'll go ahead and paste in the URL that I copied from the other page. I'll type ‘Social' for the Header/Label field.

Now let's go ahead and add another list. Click Add, go back, and this time, let's grab the gambling list. Copy that to the clipboard and go back to our settings page. We'll paste that into the sources and call it ‘Gambling'.

Let's go back and look at our different lists again. You can see that some categories are already combined. Gambling and social are combined, but I added them separately. You can also find lists from lots of other sites.

We still have a few things to do on the Settings page, so let's go back there. For List Action, we want to pick Unbound from the dropdown. For Update Frequency, we'll pick Once a day. Now let's enter a few sites to our Custom Block List. I'll just make up a few: ‘fakesite.com', gamblingsite.com', and ‘badsite.com'. We'll leave the Update Custom List set to Default, come down, and click on Save.

### Update 06:40-07:09

Now we need to force pfBlockerNG to update. We'll go up to the Update tab. Make sure that the Update radial button is selected and click on Run. Now we need to go to Status > Services and restart the DNSBL service. Then we'll come down and restart the Unbound service. Now, if our users go to one of the sites on any of the lists, the content will be blocked.

### Summary 07:09-07:24

That's it for this demo. In this demonstration, we installed and configured pfBlockerNG to block and filter websites, domains, and other web content.

## 5.6.4 Web Threat Protection Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Web threats
- Web threat protection

### Web Threats

A web threat is any threat that uses the internet to perform some sort of malicious activity. As web attacks become increasingly sophisticated, it is difficult for users to discern legitimate sites, valid links, and safe downloads. Because web threats can wreak so much havoc, organizations are turning to solutions that stop threats before they reach users.

Administrators must choose between using an all-in-one device that provides a one-stop shop for security protection or using dedicated devices for each specific type of threat protection. The choice normally depends on the size of an organization and how much they want to spend.

### Web Threat Protection

The following table describes protections against web threats by using both hardware and software solutions:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Protection
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Website/URL content filtering
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Website and content filtering prevents a user from visiting restricted websites.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Specific websites are identified as restricted; employees are not able to view the sites on their browsers.
      </li>
      <li>
       Website filtering can be used to enforce the organization's internet usage policy.
      </li>
      <li>
       Website filtering helps to increase bandwidth availability.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Web threat filtering
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Web threat filtering prevents a user from visiting websites with known malicious content.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       It maintains a list of websites with known malicious content.
      </li>
      <li>
       The websites on the list are blocked.
      </li>
      <li>
       An administrator can monitor sites that have become infected with spyware or other malware. 
			He or she can add those
          websites to the list.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Gateway email spam filters
    </td>
    <td>
     Gateway email spam filters prevent spam emails from reaching your network, servers, and computers. Spam
      filters can be configured to block specific senders, emails containing threats (such as false links), and emails containing
      specific content.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virus scanners
    </td>
    <td>
     Virus scanners identify infected content and dispose of it. They are often coupled with email
      scanners.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Anti-phishing software
    </td>
    <td>
     Anti-phishing software scans content to identify and dispose of phishing attempts, preventing outside
      attempts to access confidential information.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data loss prevention
    </td>
    <td>
     Data loss prevention are types of software that protects sensitive data from being exposed.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Encryption
    </td>
    <td>
     Encryption causes data, such as the content of an email, to be unintelligible except to those who have
      the proper key to decrypt it.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Proxies
    </td>
    <td>
     There are several types of proxies that are used to prevent web threats.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Transparent proxies are located between a user and the internet, and 
			they can redirect requests without changing the
          request. These can be used for web filtering.
      </li>
      <li>
       Forward proxies can be used to filter web content, but can also be used to mask a user's identity for anonymity.
          This can make it difficult for attackers to target users or an organization.
      </li>
      <li>
       Reverse proxies can be used for caching and authentication.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
