---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.9 Network Device Vulnerabilities
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     For security, what is the first thing you should do when new hardware and software is turned on for the
        first time?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the characteristics of a complex password?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to apply new firmware or patches for devices?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are major risks of hard-coded passwords on devices throughout the enterprise?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the resources you can use to keep track of existing technology vulnerabilities in an organization?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Protect an enterprise infrastructure.
    </li>
    <li>
     Use best practices to ensure resource protection.
    </li>
    <li>
     Apply software patches.
    </li>
    <li>
     Identify and catalog vulnerabilities and exposures.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Privilege escalation
    </td>
    <td>
     A software bug or design flaw in an application that allows an attacker to gain access to system
        resources or additional privileges that aren't typically available.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Backdoor
    </td>
    <td>
     An unprotected and usually lesser known access method or pathway that may allow attackers access to
        system resources.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Zero-day vulnerability
    </td>
    <td>
     A software vulnerability that is unknown to the vendor that can be exploited by attackers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Common Vulnerabilities
     <br>
     and Exposures (CVEs)
    </td>
    <td>
     A repository of vulnerabilities hosted by MITRE Corporation.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.2 Harden Network Devices
     <blockquote>
      2.2.1 Configure and Access a Switch
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     1.2 Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators to determine the type of attack.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Malware
       <ul>
        <li>
         Backdoor
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     1.3. Given a scenario, analyze potential indicators associated with application attacks.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Privilege escalation
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      1.6 Explain the security concerns associated with various types of vulnerabilities.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Weak configurations
       <ul>
        <li>
         Unsecured root accounts
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      3.4 Given a scenario, install and configure wireless security 
		settings.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Installation considerations
       <ul>
        <li>
         Wireless access point
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      3.7 Given a scenario, implement identity and account management controls.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Account policies
       <ul>
        <li>
         Password complexity
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      4.1 Given a scenario, use the appropriate tool to assess 
		organizational security.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Password crackers
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.9.1 Device Vulnerabilities

### Device Vulnerabilities 00:00-00:30

Attackers try to exploit a wide range of potential vulnerabilities that organizations may not realize they even have. For this reason, security professionals must do all they can to reduce the attack surface their company presents. In this lesson, I'll discuss several methods for reducing your attack surface and creating a company profile that's as secure as possible. Let's first look as some often-misconfigured devices that may open up opportunities for an attack.

### Misconfigured Devices 00:30-01:27

Remember that your attack surface increases each time a device is added to your network. This provides threat actors more opportunities to find openings in your network shield. These malicious users continually look for entry points, so it's important to ensure that each new device is properly configured and protected.

For example, firewalls are one of those entry points that are often misconfigured. Knowing this, attackers often look for firewalls with too many open ports or other security weaknesses. In addition, servers or appliances that are set up to block malicious payloads in emails could let spam and malware into the company if not configured properly. This could lead to data loss or corruption. Wireless access points are another area that, if not configured appropriately, could lead to potential attacks by allowing attackers into the production network. Using weak or outdated security protocols such as WEP is an open invitation for attackers. Once they have access to the internal network, the damage quotient is critically high.

### Weak Security 01:27-02:33

Another attack surface to be aware of is security. The old adage says, "A chain is only as strong as its weakest link." Attackers are experts at finding the smallest hole or chink in the armor. If they want in, they'll get in. The question is how difficult it'll be for them.

Unfortunately, when something works, it's often difficult to make changes. For compatibility reasons, administrators might use outdated and insecure security protocols such as SHA1 and WEP. So every effort to utilize updated and secure protocols such as 3DES, SHA-256, and AES should be made. Another easy security attack comes from using the default credentials for your network devices, such as routers. Most attackers find that a 10 second Google query can provide the default username and password for commonplace devices. With little effort, an attacker can usually discover the make and model of the device he or she wants to attack. Those are the credentials they'll try first. To help overcome this weakness, some manufacturers are becoming more security conscious and require a change to the defaults as part of the installation process. Others make their device inoperable until the default configuration credentials are changed.

### Updates 02:33-03:05

As computer networking professionals, we're very familiar with operating system and application software updates. These updates provide the latest patches, add functionality, and close security holes. The same is true for firmware. Firmware updates might include protocol updates that enable newer, more secure encryption. As an example, the famous WannaCry ransomware attack of 2017 took

advantage of a weakness inherent in the SMBv1 Protocol that allowed a remote attacker to take complete control of the affected system. This could've been prevented with security-minded updates.

### Credential Management 03:05-03:55

Now, let's look at credential management. Unfortunately, some administrators use the same credentials in an attempt to ease the device management burden. Even though the new credentials might be different from the default ones, doing this is still a massive security risk. It might be convenient, but if any one device becomes comprised, the attacker then has access to all device configurations. Your network is greatly compromised when this happens, and you might even have to reset all your devices to factory defaults and reconfigure them.

Another potential vulnerability concern is the use of discretionary credentials. The principle of least privilege is paramount here. Users should only be given credentials with permissions that match their specific job responsibilities. If a user is given more privileges than he or she needs, an attacker could use their account to find much more potentially sensitive data than would otherwise be the case.

### Physical Access 03:55-04:24

Next, let's go over physical access. If someone is given physical access to a device, there's very little opportunity for protection. For example, an attacker can change passwords or add credentials to a firewall with physical access. Or they can use a USB flash drive to copy data or inject malware. As such, you should confine infrastructure equipment to secure areas that only authorized personnel have access to. In addition, you should make sure that any attempted access without proper credentials sets off alarms and alerts.

### Known and Unknown Vulnerabilities 04:24-06:14

One of the hard things about keeping your devices safe is trying to protect them from unknown vulnerabilities.

Unknown vulnerabilities are often referred to as zero-day vulnerabilities. A zero-day vulnerability is a software security weakness that's unknown to the developer. Since these vulnerabilities are unknown, attackers who discover them quietly try to continue exploiting them without detection. Once brought to the developers' attention, they'll obviously want to fix them as quickly as possible. The best way to protect yourself from zero-day vulnerabilities is to keep your software updated. When a zero-day vulnerability is announced, patch it as quickly as possible.

Keeping up with the vastness of known vulnerabilities is also a monumental task. Fortunately, there's some help available for network administrators.

The National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST, has a publication that serves as a national database of known vulnerabilities. In addition, they provide vulnerability metrics called the Common Vulnerability Scoring System, or CVSS. The NIST website states that CVSS is an open framework for communicating the characteristics and severity of software vulnerabilities. After evaluating known vulnerabilities, CVSS produces a score from zero to ten, letting you calculate the vulnerability's severity. This score helps you determine the best course of action to take.

Another method of knowing about vulnerabilities is to use the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures system, or CVE system. The system's goal is to make it easier to share information about known vulnerabilities across organizations. This is done by creating unique, standardized CVE identifiers to let you access information about specific cyber threats across multiple information sources. You can download CVE lists in several different formats. As of the writing of this lesson, there are well over 175,000 identified vulnerabilities.

### Summary 06:14-06:57

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed the need for enterprises to protect their infrastructure. Some best practices to ensure protection are to not use outdated firmware, default configurations, or weak security settings. Additionally, systems administrators need to make sure that software patches are applied in a timely manner and that bad credential management practices, like discretionary credentials, are avoided. Since securing physical access points is critical to an organization's survival, you must have an airtight infrastructure in place to do this. Finally, we talked about a few resources available to help you catalog and identify common vulnerabilities and exposures.

## 5.9.2 Device Vulnerability Facts

This lesson covers network device vulnerabilities.

### Network Device Vulnerabilities

A knowledgeable attacker can exploit network device vulnerabilities to gain access to network resources. Network device vulnerabilities include:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Vulnerability
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Default accounts and passwords
     </td>
     <td>
      Default accounts and passwords are factory defaults that already exist when a new network device is
        configured at installation. Default account names and passwords should be changed immediately when hardware or software is
        turned on for the first time.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Weak passwords
     </td>
     <td>
      Weak passwords are passwords that are blank, too short, dictionary words, or simple. In other words, they are passwords
          that can be quickly identified using password cracking tools. Password cracking is the process of recovering
          secret passwords from data that has been stored in, or transmitted by, a computer system.
      <p>
       Enforce complex passwords to reduce the risks of weak passwords. Complex passwords require passwords of a certain
          length (typically over 8 characters) and a mix of character types (numbers and symbols) along with requirements that the
          passwords are not words, variations of words, or derivatives of the username.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Privilege escalation
     </td>
     <td>
      Privilege escalation allows a user to take advantage of a software bug or design flaw in an application to gain access to
          system resources or additional privileges that aren't typically available to that user. Examples of privilege
          escalation include:
      <ul>
       <li>
        A user accessing a system with a regular user account that is able to access functions reserved for higher-level
            user accounts (such as administrative features).
       </li>
       <li>
        A user who is able to access content that should only be accessible to a different user.
       </li>
       <li>
        A user who should only have administrative access that can access content that should only be available to a
            regular user.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <div class="info" data-block="
       Privilege escalation does not occur when a user is able to steal or hack administrator credentials and is
            therefore able to access administrative functions. Privilege escalation refers to accessing features with an account
            that normally should not have access to those features.
      "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
       Privilege escalation does not occur when a user is able to steal or hack administrator credentials and is
            therefore able to access administrative functions. Privilege escalation refers to accessing features with an account
            that normally should not have access to those features.
      </span></div></div></div></div>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Backdoors
     </td>
     <td>
      A backdoor is an unprotected access method or pathway. Backdoors:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Include hard-coded passwords and hidden service accounts
       </li>
       <li>
        Are often added during development as a shortcut to circumvent security. If they are not removed, they present a
            security problem
       </li>
       <li>
        Can be added by attackers who have gained unauthorized access to a device. When added, the backdoor can be used at
            a future time to easily bypass security controls.
       </li>
       <li>
        Can be used to remotely control the device at a later date
       </li>
       <li>
        Rely on secrecy to maintain security
       </li>
      </ul>
      To protect against backdoors, do not allow programmers to bypass security during development. Carefully examine the
          code before release to remove any traces of backdoors that might have been included.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 5.9.3 Searching for Default Passwords

### Searching for Default Passwords 00:00-00:24

In this demonstration, we'll look at some default network device passwords. When you install a new network device, it's almost always going to have some sort of default administrative account with an associated password. You can find these by doing a search for default network device passwords, like I did up here.

### New Laws 00:24-01:00

Some states and countries require unique passwords for each device. Here's the website for the State of California Legislature. If I scroll down, you can see where I highlighted this line, "The preprogrammed password is unique to each device manufactured." That means in order to sell devices in this state, I have to make sure each one has a unique password. Since these sort of laws have been implemented, most manufactures are doing this for devices sold anywhere, which is a good practice. But not all devices come with unique passwords, especially enterprise equipment.

### Find Default Passwords on the Web 01:00-02:36

On legacy equipment, having default passwords presents a security issue because these usernames and passwords are very well known and very easy to find. If someone learns your device's make and model and you haven't changed the default password, they could cause some serious damage.

Let's say we have a Netgear router, and we want to find out what the default password is. Well, I did a search, like we already saw, and here are some of the sites I found.

This first one, CIRT.net, is a pretty good site. It has over 2,100 default passwords on it. And if we come down here, we can find Netgear, and you can see a variety of different makes and models. It looks like for admin, password is a common default password for Netgear.

Let's check out another one, datarecovery.com. I'll press Ctrl+F to do a search and type in ‘netgear'. I'll move down, and we can see a list of Netgear devices. Once again, you can see the usernames and passwords. This one's credentials are admin and password.

Let's look at one more site. This one is routerpasswords.com. I can come down and look for our Netgear devices again. I'll click on Find Passwords and see the variety of different Netgear network devices they've listed. On this site, it looks like most of the default usernames and passwords are admin and password, although there is some variance. We can also see how you interface with the device, whether it's over a web browser using HTTP, FTP, or some other way.

### Summary 02:36-02:56

That's it for this demo. We searched the web for some default usernames and passwords for network devices. Remember, always change the default username and password on new network devices. Leaving default credentials presents a huge security risk.

## 5.9.4 Unauthorized SSH Connection

### Establish an Unauthorized SSH Connection 00:00-00:25

Malicious users sometimes gain access to systems with SSH connections. It's not a good idea to allow root access through SSH, but many admins modify their systems to allow it anyway. Once a malicious user has access to the system, they can pretty much do what they want. In this demo, we're going to gain access to a Linux system and create an unauthorized SSH session.

### Find the System 00:25-01:14

The first thing we need to do is find our target. I'm on a Kali Linux system with a terminal open. I'm going to do a ping sweep using nmap on my subnet. I already know that my subnet is 10.10.10.0. So, to do this, I'll type '10.10.10.0/24', or I could also put in the IP range. In this case, that would be '10.10.10.1-254'. Press Enter.

My scan completes, and down here, I can see that it found four hosts. Up here, I can see that I have a device called Router with the IP of 10.10.10.1, so that's going to be my target. I'll clear the screen. And now, I want to scan just that IP to see which ports are open. The scan completes, and this, right here, is what I'm interested in. I see that SSH is running on port 22 on this system.

### Nmap Scripting Engine Brute-Force Script 01:14-02:38

Now, let's use nmap and run a script that will attempt to brute force the username and password. nmap comes with something called the Nmap scripting engine. One of those scripts is for brute forcing SSH. So, let's type that in, 'nmap - -script=ssh-brute 10.10.10.1', and press Enter. nmap will begin the process of attempting to brute force the username and password. nmap is using a built-in default username list and a password list to do this. First, it will grab a username and try a password. Then it goes to the next username and tries the next password. I'm on a virtual machine without a lot of system resources, so this is going to take some time. So, while this is running, I'll pause the recording.

All right. The scan finished up, and we can see, here, that it found the username Root and the password, which is a variation of the word "password." The brute force made 2,270 guesses, and it took just a little over 600 seconds to complete the process. As I mentioned, this is a virtual machine, so the scanning goes a lot slower. But I do happen to know that the password it found is near the top of the list of tens of thousands of passwords. So, depending on your system and your password file, your results could be substantially different.

Now that we know our username and password, let's try to make an unauthorized SSH connection to that system. I'm going to jump over to a Windows 10 system and try the connection from there.

Unauthorized SSH Connection from Windows 10 02:38-03:36
All right. I'm on this Windows 10 machine, and up here, I have a program called PuTTY. PuTTY is a free and open-source terminal emulator, serial console, and network file transfer application. It supports several network protocols, including SCP, SSH, Telnet, rlogin, and other connections. It's often used to connect to switching and routing equipment.

To make a connection, I'll type in the IP address for our victim machine, '10.10.10.1'. Under Port, 22 is already entered, so I'll just hit Enter.

Now, a terminal opens up. It's asking for a login name, so I'll put in 'root'. And now it wants my password, so I'll type in the variation of the word "password" that we saw earlier. Press Enter, and I'm logged in! So, whatever's possible to do in a terminal, I'm able to do--that gives me a lot of options.

Okay. I still want to look at one more thing, and that's to log in to that victim machine to see what's going on while this SSH session is running.

### Log in to the Victim Machine 03:36-03:50

Let's go over to this Linux system. This is actually a Linux distribution that's used as a firewall and router. I'm going to go ahead and log in to the GUI. Once I've logged in, I'm not really able to tell that there's an SSH session going on at the exact same time.

### Summary 03:50-04:21

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we performed an unauthorized SSH connection. First, we scanned our subnet with nmap to find our victim. Then we used an nmap script to brute force the username and password. We used that information to make the SSH connection to the victim machine using the program PuTTY. And we wrapped up by logging in to the victim machine's GUI to verify that the SSH session wasn't detected.

## 5.9.5 Securing a Switch

### Securing a Switch 00:00-00:29

In this demonstration, we're going to secure access to our network switch. We're using a Cisco Small Business Switch, which has a web interface for access and configuration.

We access the switch by typing its IP address, 192.168.254.8, into a web browser. And here's the login page.

This is a new switch, so it still has the default user name and password configured of cisco and cisco, which we'll enter and then click Log In.

### Login as the Default User 00:29-00:43

Now, the default user name and password for this device can be found very easily, so you can tell that this switch is not very secure right now.

Normally, the first thing you should do with a new network device is change the default user name and password.

### Create a New User 00:43-01:42

On this device, we can use the Change Device Password link under Quick Access to do this.

This takes us directly to the User Accounts page under Administration. And here's the default user, cisco. Let's first create another user. Click Add. Enter ciscoAdmin for the user name.

Enter a strong, complex password. And we want Read/Write Management Access. And click Apply. And we can see the new ciscoAdmin user here.

We also want to change the password for the default user.

So we'll select the cisco user and click Edit. And again we want to use a complex password. And for this user, let's also change the user level. We'll select Read-Only CLI Access.

Change the Default User's Password and User Level 01:42-02:12
This way, if someone is able to get into the switch using the default account, they won't be able to change anything. And we'll click Apply.

So, the first thing we've done to secure access to our switch is add another admin account with a custom user name and a complex password. We then changed the default user's password and set the user level to read-only.

Doing this makes it harder for people to get into our switch here and change the configuration. And this should be the first step you do with any new network device.

Save Changes to the Startup Configuration Files 02:12-02:38
Now, there's one more important step to take here. And that's to save the changes we've to the startup config. If we don't, as soon as the switch is rebooted, the changes will be lost; we don't want this.

So we'll click Save to go to the Copy/Save Configuration page. And here we want to save the contents of the Running configuration to the Startup configuration. And click Apply. Now when the device reboots, it will load our custom configuration.

### Summary 02:38-02:57

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we secured access to our network switch. First we added a new management user with full access. We changed the default user's password. And then we saved our changes to the startup configuration file.
