---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 5.10 Network Applications
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What kinds of security problems might occur with P2P software?
- Which types of malware are commonly spread through instant messaging (IM)?
- What security concerns should you be aware of when using instant messaging software?
- What security measures should you incorporate to control the use of networking software?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure application control software

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Peer-to-peer (P2P) software
    </td>
    <td>
     Software that allows users to share content without
        centralized servers or centralized access control.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Instant messaging
    </td>
    <td>
     Real-time text messaging communication that supports picture, music, and document exchange.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     3.2 Implement Application Defenses
     <blockquote>
      3.2.1 Implement Application Whitelisting
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     1.1 Compare and contrast different types of social engineering techniques.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Spam over Internet messaging (SPIM)
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      1.6 Explain the security concerns associated with various types of vulnerabilities.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Weak configurations
       <ul>
        <li>
         Open ports and services
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     3.2 Given a scenario, implement host or application security solutions.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Application security
       <ul>
        <li>
         Whitelisting
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 5.10.1 Network Application Security

### Network Application Security 00:00-00:46

Let's switch gears a bit and talk about some applications that can pose a threat to your network. The first application we'll look at is called a peer-to-peer application, also called a torrent application.

Chances are you have some type of experience using a peer-to-peer application. In fact, if you use the latest version of Windows, it has a built-in peer-to-peer component for distributing OS updates.

The traditional method for downloading a file or application is by connecting to a single server where the file resides and then downloading the file from that location. This model works fine. However, if several hundred people are constantly trying to download that file, the bandwidth and resources needed to maintain this server gets pretty expensive.

### Peer-to-Peer (P2P) Application 00:46-02:03

Peer-to-peer applications and services address this by creating a sort of mesh network of computers that are able to distribute the bandwidth among all the computers. Instead of a centralized download resource, we now have a decentralized download network. When a computer in this network needs a particular file, it is sent in chunks from each computer in the network, and then the downloaded chunks are compiled on the destination host.

For example, let's say you are downloading an update for Windows 10. Instead of going to Microsoft's servers and downloading the entire update, you might get 5 megabytes of the update from this PC, and 3 megabytes of the update from this PC, and so on until you have the entire update downloaded.

Peer-to-peer applications are a great way to share bandwidth and resources. However, they also pose a security risk to an organization.

Peer-to-peer applications are notorious for containing malware, viruses, and illegal content, such as pirated software or movies. They also have the potential to be extreme bandwidth hogs. Not only can they consume large amounts of download bandwidth, but they can also consume large amounts of upload bandwidth. In fact, a handful of computers using peer-to-peer applications in a network has the potential to max out even the fastest internet connections.

### Data Loss 02:03-02:23

Another potential issue with peer-to-peer applications is that of data loss.

Peer-to-peer applications have the ability to turn any computer into a download station, allowing the user to share any file they want with the entire internet. This makes it possible for an employee to knowingly, or even unknowingly, share confidential information with the world.

Because of this, it's important for you to seriously consider blocking all peer-to-peer traffic on your network.

### Blocking P2P Apps 02:23-03:20

One way to do this is to block the common ports that peer-to-peer traffic uses. However, a knowledgeable user can easily bypass this by simply changing the port or using a port that they know will be open.

A much more effective method is to add peer-to-peer traffic to the blacklist of a network content filter. Instead of having to block ports, the content filter will inspect packets that are sent on the network. And because peer-to-peer applications use readily identifiable packets, the content filter can easily identify and block the traffic.

Another method is to prevent the installation of peer-to-peer applications on company computers. This method will work with company owned devices, however, you might still need to block P2P network traffic using the methods I talked about earlier. This will ensure personal devices are also unable to use P2P traffic.

### Instant Messaging (IM) 03:20-04:27

Another network application that poses a threat to network security is an instant messaging application.

There are countless instant messaging platforms out there—"Google talk, Skype, iMessage, IRC, Slack, the list goes on. Now, I want to mention that all of these messaging platforms can be great for company productivity and collaboration, especially when working with people in different geographic locations. However, they do pose a security risk.

These applications can be a vehicle for malware and virus delivery as well as social engineering exploits. It's even possible for a disgruntled employee to send sensitive company information to someone using one of these platforms. Because of this, you should weigh the pros and cons of instant messaging applications and consider whether it is worth the risk to allow these applications.

If you decide you don't want to allow IM applications, consider blocking IM traffic using a content filter or disallow the installation of IM applications on company computers. But do know that because some of these applications use encrypted communications, it can be very hard to block 100% of the traffic.

### Summary 04:27-04:59

Another way you can prevent data exfiltration and network threats posed by network applications is to develop and enforce proper security policies.

Specify the types of network applications that are not allowed, and train employees on taking proper precautions when accepting files via IM applications or downloading files off the internet. Employee training and proper policies are just as important as firewalls and content filters.

## 5.10.2 Configuring Application Control Software

### Application Control 00:01-01:26

In this demonstration, we're going to look at application control. Application controls focus on controlling the applications a user at a workstation can access over a network. This is similar to what a firewall does.

For example, a packet filtering firewall examines traffic going through it. Based on its rule set, a firewall will block traffic using specific ports or protocols, so you should be able to control application access with a firewall.

However, if you have a savvy user trying to access a forbidden application on the internet, the user can reconfigure the session to use a protocol or port that is commonly left open on most network firewalls, for example, port 80.

A user could reconfigure a game application blocked by the firewall to use port 80. The packet filtering firewall doesn't examine the contents of the packet, only the protocol--TCP, UDP--and the port.

So, a firewall wouldn't block the game traffic redirected to a port that's used for legitimate traffic.

Application control software, on the other hand, focuses on the application signature.

In much the same way that antivirus software uses signatures to detect viruses on your system, application control software uses application signatures to identify traffic associated with a specific application.

It disregards the port number used.

### Configuring Application Control 01:26-02:51

In this demonstration, we're going to configure application control software to block specific network applications.

To do this, we have our network set up similar to what is shown in this picture here, with user computers accessing the network through a shared switch--some wirelessly, some wired--and ultimately passing through the firewall that also has application control software configured on it, to our router, and then out to the internet.

In other words, all traffic passes through here; and as such, the application control software can look at those packets before it allows entry or exit from the network.

For this demo, we'll be using the untangle software that includes an application control module. Certain aspects of this program are free. You have to pay for the application control, but you can try it out for free for 14 days.

You can click up here to see what applications are currently installed. You can see there's a variety of applications or modules that they have.

We have captive portal, which requires, for instance, users to accept a use agreement before getting onto our network; there's a firewall; there are some phishing blockers or virus protection.

We're interested in this application control. Even though the application control is up and running and turned on, it's actually not filtering much. Before we can use it, we need to tell it which applications we would like to filter.

### Blocking Applications 02:51-05:53

In order to demonstrate this, before I configure that, I want to show you that I have access on a machine that's within my network. I'm going to switch over to my Windows 10 machine now.

My Windows 10 machine is one of these computers over here. Let's go look at it now. As you can see, my Windows 10 machine has access to the internet right now.

We can go out and do a Google search on application controllers--or, in this case, a Bing search--and you can see it returns results.

Perhaps I want to check Facebook and see what's going on in my life, or I could pull up Skype and start to chat my life away on Skype. You can see that these applications are working.

Let's go ahead now and switch back to our application control and enable some rules to prohibit access to these services. We'll come here to the Applications tab, and then we need to go down and find those specific services.

You can see there's a wide variety of services that are listed here. I wish there was a better way to search for the particular service that you're wanting to block. For now, we'll have to be content with just scrolling down. Look at the thousands, over 2000 different applications, that you can block.

So, I find Facebook here and I'm going to go ahead and block that. I could also flag it so that it ends up in one of my reports.

This Tarpit option right here, simply allows the connection to be established, but then the application control 'software untangle' drops the information so that both sides think there's a connection, but no data actually gets through. We blocked Facebook.

Let's go ahead and scroll down and block Skype now. There's lots of different Skype services. I'm going to just block them all. You can see that it's fairly granular in what you can do, allow or prohibit.

Once you're done, then you need to click the Save button. Unfortunately, the application doesn't scale well, so you'll have to scroll down to get to that Save button. There it is right there.

Once you've clicked that Save button, now those applications and those rules will be enforced. Let me now switch back over to my Windows 10 environment and see the impact of those rule changes.

Let's go ahead and try to refresh Facebook. You'll notice that nothing works. As we refresh Facebook, you see that the page can't be reached. However, other pages are still accessible, and we can still do our search.

Let's go investigate Skype now. You can see here that my contacts are no longer online, and it's having trouble connecting over there.

Again, you can get pretty granular on what you want to block and what you want to allow. Let's switch back over to the untangle server now. You can see how effective that was in blocking the traffic.

### Reviewing results 05:53-07:19

We can go look and it monitors how many sessions are there. Looks like it had 2500 scans and allowed 1700 of those. It flagged 70 different applications, kept track of those.

You have kind of a dashboard around what it has done. You can easily turn this on and off by simply clicking right here. And then if we switch back over to our Windows 10, you'll see that all of a sudden I can now access Skype and Facebook. Let's do that. No problem. And if we pull up Skype, you can see that it's back online.

Switching back over to our untangle server', let's just look at a couple more things.

This first column is just the application signature. You can see the name, the category.

This is nice because you can ban whole groups of applications based on the type of category, or the presumed productivity associated with that application, risk associated with it, and then a short description of that. There are others.

You can go look at the specific roles, or you can view reports behind this. So, once again, very easy to set up, but very useful in helping to control your environment, and what's going on within your enterprise.

### Summary 07:19-07:48

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we introduced you to application control software. We first talked about what application control software does.

We then configured the untangle application control software to block specific traffic--in this case, Skype and Facebook.

Then we went to the client system on the internal network and we tried to access a forbidden application and it was blocked.

## 5.10.3 Network Application Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Application threats
- Control networking software

### Application Threats

Some applications can pose a threat to your network. The following table lists some of these applications and some of the security concerns with each.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Software
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Considerations
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Peer-to-peer (P2P)
     </td>
     <td>
      Peer-to-peer (P2P) software allows users to share content and access content shared by other users without using
          centralized servers or centralized access control. P2P software uses ad hoc connections that allow peers to connect and
          disconnect at will. A common example of P2P file sharing software is BitTorrent. The latest version of Windows also has a
          built-in peer-to-peer component for distributing operating system updates.
      <p>
       Security considerations for P2P software include the following:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Files accessible from other users might be posted illegally.
       </li>
       <li>
        Files available for download could contain malware.
       </li>
       <li>
        File sharing uses network bandwidth and could consume so much bandwidth that regular traffic is affected.
       </li>
       <li>
        Weaknesses in P2P software could allow attackers to access more than just the files shared on a system.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       Steps a security administrator can take include the following:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Use content filters to block downloading and uploading copyrighted files that the file owners do not want to be
            shared.
       </li>
       <li>
        Block the port the P2P software is using.
       </li>
       <li>
        Enable encryption in the P2P program.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Instant messaging (IM)
     </td>
     <td>
      Instant messaging (IM) provides real-time text messaging communication and supports picture, music, and document
          exchange. Some examples of instant messaging are: Google Talk, Skype, iMessage, Facebook Messenger, Internet Relay Chat
          (IRC), and Slack. Although it offers a quick way to communicate, IM has the following problems:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Use of peer-to-peer networking makes IM clients less secure than other communication methods.
       </li>
       <li>
        IM is either in cleartext or uses an easily broken basic encryption scheme to protect integrity rather than
            confidentiality. IM traffic is subject to sniffing, capturing, and viewing by others.
       </li>
       <li>
        Loss of productivity is considered a major IM problem.
       </li>
       <li>
        Malicious code propagation, worms, and viruses are easily spread through IM.
       </li>
       <li>
        May contain spim, which is a type of spam targeting users of instant messaging (IM) services.
        <ul>
         <li>
          IM systems contain user directories, making it easy to identify spim targets.
         </li>
         <li>
          IM systems often contain demographic information about users.
         </li>
         <li>
          Information in contact lists can be remotely accessed.
         </li>
        </ul>
        <div class="info" data-block="
         Create a whitelist or use an IM blocker as a countermeasure to spim.
        "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"style="width:20px" ><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
         Create a whitelist or use an IM blocker as a countermeasure to spim.
        </span></div></div></div></div>
       </li>
       <li>
        Client-side scripting allows attackers to send messages on behalf of other IM users and can be used to create
            social engineering attacks.
       </li>
       <li>
        IM clients often indicate when you are online, even without your consent. IM software, especially free software
            with ads, may track your use for marketing purposes.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

### Control Networking Software

Use the following to control the use of networking software:

<ul>
   <li>
    Have a written policy that identifies the allowed or prohibited usage of all software.
   </li>
   <li>
    Use Group Policy or other methods to prevent installation of the software.
   </li>
   <li>
    Block firewall ports that are used by the software.
   </li>
   <li>
    Consider implementing an application control solution.
    <ul>
     <li>
      A firewall alone may be insufficient in blocking the use of network applications.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Knowledgeable users can circumvent firewall ACLs by reconfiguring network applications to use ports commonly left
            open.
       </li>
       <li>
        Packet filtering firewalls do not inspect the contents of a packet. Only the source IP address, destination IP
            address, protocol, and port are used to determine if a packet should be blocked.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </li>
     <li>
      An application control solution can be used to block unauthorized network applications.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Application control implementations use application signatures to identify specific applications.
       </li>
       <li>
        The contents of packets are inspected and compared against these signatures to identify the associated
            application.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </li>
     <li>
      An application whitelist is defined centrally and applied to all network devices.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Only applications contained in the whitelist are allowed.
       </li>
       <li>
        Several actions can be applied to applications that not whitelisted:
        <ul>
         <li>
          Flagged applications are allowed but a violation is logged when they are identified.
         </li>
         <li>
          Blocked applications are not allowed and are blocked. The session is dropped if it uses UDP and reset if it
                uses TCP.
         </li>
         <li>
          Tarpitted applications are not allowed. However, the connection between hosts is kept alive while the
                application data itself is silently dropped. This makes it appear to both hosts that the other host is receiving
                the data but not responding.
          <div class="info" data-block="
           Not all application control solutions support tarpitting application traffic.
          "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
           Not all application control solutions support tarpitting application traffic.
          </span></div></div></div></div>
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </li>
     <li>
      If a user tries to use a disallowed application, they can be prompted to contact the help desk or system administrator
        to get the application reviewed and approved for use.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
  </ul>
