---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 10.2 Data Loss Prevention
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What is the purpose of a DLP system?
    </li>
    <li>
     How can DLP be implemented?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is endpoint DLP important?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is an example of file-level DLP?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Understand DLP, masking, encryption, tokenization, and rights management

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Term</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Definition</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Data loss prevention (DLP)</td>
        <td>
        A system that attempts to detect and stop breaches of sensitive data
        within an organization.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Network DLP</td>
        <td>
        A software or hardware solution that is typically installed near the
        network perimeter that analyzes network traffic in an attempt to
        detect transmission of sensitive data in violation of an
        organization's security policies.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Endpoint DLP</td>
        <td>DLP Software that runs on end-user workstations and servers.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>File-level DLP</td>
        <td>
        DLP software that is used to identify sensitive files in a file
        system and then to embed the organization's security policy within
        the file so that it travels with the a moved or copied file.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Cloud DLP</td>
        <td>
        A software solution that analyzes traffic to and from cloud systems
        in an attempt to detect sensitive data that is being transmitted in
        violation of an organization's security policies.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Masking</td>
        <td>
        The process of replacing sensitive data with realistic fictional
        data.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Encryption</td>
        <td>
        The process of changing plain text through an algorithm into
        unreadable ciphertext.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Tokenization</td>
        <td>
        The process of replacing original data with a randomly generated
        alphanumeric character set called a token.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Rights management</td>
        <td>
        A system of data protection at the file level that uses various
        forms of permissions, rules, and security policies.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">Exam</th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Objective</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>TestOut Security Pro</td>
        <td>
        4.0 Data Security
        <p>4.1 Protect and Maintain Data Files</p>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>CompTIA Security+ SY0-601</td>
        <td>
        2.1. Summarize secure application development, deployment, and
        automation concepts.
        <ul>
            <li>
            Data protection
            <ul>
                <li>Data loss prevention (DLP)</li>
                <li>Masking</li>
                <li>Encryption</li>
                <li>At rest</li>
                <li>In transit/motion</li>
                <li>In processing</li>
                <li>Tokenization</li>
                <li>Rights management</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## 10.2.1 Data Loss Prevention

### Data Loss Prevention 00:00-00:31

Every business has sensitive data in its system, and protecting it is a high priority. A data leakage incident happens when sensitive data like credit card numbers, intellectual property, financial information, or proprietary company information is disclosed to an unauthorized person. In this lesson, we'll look at five approaches to data security, including data loss prevention, or DLP; masking; encryption; tokenization; and rights management.

### Data States 00:31-00:55

Data can exist in one of three states, and it's important to use the right security approach for each state. The first state is while the data is in use on an endpoint system, like a workstation. The second state is while the data is in motion, such as when it's transmitted over the network or to the cloud. The third state is while the data rests on a storage medium, like a hard disk drive, or in a database.

### DLP 00:55-01:29

Let's look at data protection through a DLP system. A DLP system works like a guard at the perimeter of your network, allowing unsensitive data to leave, but restricting sensitive data from being transmitted out of the company. A DLP analyzes the network traffic in accordance with the organization's security policies.

For example, an e-commerce retailer could use a network DLP solution to monitor for files containing credit card numbers. If one of those files were being transmitted out of the company, the DLP software would flag it as a potential security problem.

### Masking 01:29-01:42

Next, let's look at the masking approach. Masking works by replacing sensitive data with realistic fictional data. There are different types of masking. We'll look at dynamic data masking, and then we'll look at static data masking.

### Dynamic Data Masking 01:42-02:04

Let's start with dynamic. Dynamic masking replaces original information with a mask that mimics the original in form and function, making it useful for data that's in use or in processing. For example, someone's name would be replaced with another name, or credit card numbers would be replaced with a random number that contains the same number of characters.

### Dynamic Data Masking 02:04-02:19

This method can be used to control which users can see the actual data. A bank could have third-party analytics performed on their accounts while masking the account numbers and clients' names. With dynamic data masking, the original data can be retrieved.

### Static Data Masking 02:19-02:46

Another type of masking is static data masking. This type is helpful for data at rest in a database and can be specified by field or column. You may want to use this method if you're making copies of a database for testing, development, or reporting. The complex algorithms in static masking make the original data irretrievable through reverse-engineering, so making a masked copy may be a better choice than masking the original database.

### Encryption 02:46-03:07

All right. Next, let's briefly review encryption. Encryption happens when an algorithm changes plain text data into unreadable ciphertext. The encryption algorithm has a variable that's called a key. The authorized user that receives the encrypted data can decrypt it through the cipher key. This helps to protect data in motion.

### Tokenization 03:07-03:43

Now let's look at a tokenization approach. Tokenization is similar to encryption and masking--it replaces actual data with something else. But tokenization uses a randomly generated alphanumeric character set called a token to replace the original data. The token server stores the original data and is protected by security measures like authentication and authorization protocols so that the original information is disclosed only when the correct token is presented. This method is frequently used for credit card numbers, bank accounts, medical records, and other personally identifiable information.

### Tokenization 03:43-04:18

For example, when you have a credit card number stored on your mobile phone through an app, the app connects with the remote token server, which creates the token and replaces the credit card number stored in your phone.

Then, when you go to use your phone's app to pay for your purchase at the store, the store's point of sale terminal will contact a merchant acquirer. The merchant acquirer presents the token value to the remote token server. The server uses the token to map back to your actual credit card number and authorize the purchase. An authorization is sent to the merchant, and a message from the server is sent to your phone.

### Rights Management 04:18-04:53

Finally, we have rights management. Rights management is data protection at the file level. With rights management, you identify sensitive files in the file system and embed them with your organization's security policy. The key benefit of this approach is that the security policy travels with the specific file even if it's moved or copied. You can continue to control access to the file, such as restricting who it can be transferred to, even when the file is no longer on your system. Rights management falls into two categories: Digital Rights Management, or DRM, and Information Rights Management, or IRM.

### Data Rights Management 04:53-05:38

DRM is file level management applied to rich media like music, videos, and software. This strategy uses security technologies such as encryption, permissions, product keys, limited install applications, and persistent online authentication to prevent editing, sharing, and unauthorized copying. The purpose is to protect copyrighted media and software. For example, when a consumer purchases a software program, the program is not accessible without a product key provided by the manufacturer at the time of purchase. An example of continuous online authentication is when a consumer logs in to an online application or streams the information through an account that requires authentication.

### Information Rights Management 05:38-06:10

Now let's move on to IRM, or Information Rights Management. It's also called Enterprise Rights Management sometimes. It focuses on business-to-business transfers for files such as documents, emails, spreadsheets, and financial data. Information rights management utilizes encryption and permissions to create rules for the files, which can allow or deny copying and pasting, editing, forwarding, and printing. An example is a contract document that only the recipient can open and digitally sign and is denied forwarding abilities.

### Summary 06:10-06:52

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we review five approaches to data protection. First, we looked at data loss prevention. Next, we discussed two types of masking, dynamic and static. We talked about encryption, which uses a cipher with a key to encode information that can be decoded with a key by the receiver. Next, we discussed tokenization, which uses an alphanumeric value as a token to replace sensitive information that's protected by the token server. And finally, we went over rights management, which protects data through permissions at the file level that stay with the file even if it leaves your network.

## 10.2.2 DLP Facts

Every business has sensitive data in its system and keeping it protected is a high priority. Data leakage happens when sensitive data like credit card numbers, intellectual property, financial information, or proprietary company information is disclosed to an unauthorized person. This lesson will look at five approaches to data security, including data loss prevention, masking, encryption, tokenization, and rights management.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    DLP
   </li>
   <li>
    Masking
   </li>
   <li>
    Encryption
   </li>
   <li>
    Tokenization
   </li>
   <li>
    Rights management
   </li>
</ul>

### DLP

Data loss prevention (DLP) is a system that attempts to detect and stop breaches of sensitive data within an organization. Sensitive data is monitored by the DLP system in four different states:

<ul>
   <li>
    While in use on endpoint systems
   </li>
   <li>
    While in motion as it is transmitted over the network
   </li>
   <li>
    While at rest on a storage medium
   </li>
   <li>
    While being transmitted to or from cloud-based systems
   </li>
</ul>

Accordingly, there are many ways in which DLP can be implemented. Be familiar with the following:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        DLP Implementation
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Network DLP</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>
            A software or hardware solution that is typically installed near
            the network perimeter
            </li>
            <li>
            Analyzes network traffic in an attempt to detect sensitive data
            that is being transmitted in violation of an organization's
            security policies
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Endpoint DLP</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Runs on end-user workstations and servers</li>
            <li>Also referred to as a Chinese Wall solution</li>
            <li>
            Could be something as simple as restricting the use of USB
            devices
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>File-Level DLP</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Used to identify sensitive files in a file system</li>
            <li>Embeds the organization's security policy within the file</li>
            <li>Travels with the file when it is moved or copied</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Cloud DLP</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>
            Software solution that is typically on cloud-based systems
            </li>
            <li>
            Analyzes traffic to and from cloud systems in an attempt to
            detect sensitive data that is being transmitted in violation of
            an organization's security policies
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Masking

Masking works by replacing sensitive data with realistic fictional data. There are different types of masking.

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Masking Type
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Dynamic data masking</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>
            Replaces original information with a mask that mimics the
            original in form and function, making it useful for data which
            is in use or processing. For example, someone’s name would be
            replaced with another random name, or credit card numbers would
            be replaced with a random number that contains the same number
            of characters
            </li>
            <li>
            Can be used to control which users can see the actual data
            </li>
            <li>Original data can be retrieved</li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Static data masking</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>
            Helpful for data at rest in a database and can be specified by
            field or columns
            </li>
            <li>
            Good to use when making copies of a database for testing,
            development, or reporting
            </li>
            <li>
            Original data is made irretrievable through reverse-engineering.
            A mask copy is made rather than masking the original database
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Encryption

Encryption is an essential tool in data loss prevention specifically for data in motion and at rest.

<ul>
   <li>
    Happens when plaintext data is changed through an algorithm into 
	unreadable ciphertext
   </li>
   <li>
    The encryption algorithm has a variable that is called a key
   </li>
   <li>
    The authorized user that receives the encrypted data can decrypt it through 
the cipher key
   </li>
</ul>

### Tokenization

Tokenization is another effective tool in data loss prevention. Tokenization does the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Replaces actual data with a randomly generated alphanumeric character 
	set called a token
   </li>
   <li>
    Stores original data on a server
   </li>
   <li>
    Protects data on its server with authentication and authorization 
	protocols
   </li>
   <li>
    Allows authorization only when correct token is presented
   </li>
</ul>

### Rights Management

Another data protection tool is rights management.

<ul>
   <li>
    Data is protected at the file level
   </li>
   <li>
    Identifies sensitive files and embeds them with your security policies
   </li>
   <li>
    Security policy travels with the specific file, even when copied or 
	moved
   </li>
   <li>
    Allows continued control access to the file even when it's no longer in 
	your system
   </li>
</ul>

Rights management has two categories:

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Rights Management Category
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Digital rights management (DRM)</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>
            File-level management applied to rich media like music, videos,
            and software that are sold to consumers
            </li>
            <li>
            Utilizes security technologies
            <ul>
                <li>encryption</li>
                <li>permissions</li>
                <li>product keys</li>
                <li>limited install applications</li>
                <li>
                persistent online authentication to prevent:
                <ul>
                    <li>editing</li>
                    <li>sharing</li>
                    <li>unauthorized copying</li>
                </ul>
                </li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Information rights management (IRM)</td>
        <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Sometimes called enterprise rights management</li>
            <li>
            Focused on business-to-business file transfers such as:
            <ul>
                <li>documents</li>
                <li>spreadsheets</li>
                <li>financial data</li>
                <li>emails</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
            Utilizes encryption and permissions to create rules for files to
            allow or deny:
            <ul>
                <li>copying and pasting</li>
                <li>editing</li>
                <li>forwarding</li>
                <li>printing of documents</li>
            </ul>
            </li>
        </ul>
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
