---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 7.4 File Encryption
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:


In this section, you will learn to:


The key terms for this section include:


This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:


## 7.4.1 Encrypting File System

### Encrypting File System (EFS) 00:00-00:25

Microsoft's Encrypting File System, or EFS, was introduced with NTFS version 3 and has been included in every version of Windows since Windows 2000, except for in the Home editions.

EFS makes it simple for users to encrypt files on their Windows systems.

In this lesson, we'll look at the EFS encryption process, recovering data, and some security considerations with EFS.

### EFS Encryption Process 00:25-01:25

EFS combines the speed of symmetric encryption with the convenience of asymmetric encryption.

However, keep in mind that EFS is used to encrypt individual files or folders on the system, not the entire drive. You would have to use BitLocker for that.

When you want to encrypt a file, Windows generates a pseudo-random number called the File Encryption Key, or FEK. Windows uses the FEK with the AES encryption algorithm to encrypt the file.

To further protect everything, the FEK is then encrypted using the user's public key and stores the encrypted FEK in the file's header in a special location called the Data Decryption Field, or DDF.

The decryption process is just the opposite.

The user's private key is used to first unlock the DDF and get the FEK. The FEK is then used to decrypt the file.

By combining the security of the symmetric keys and the convenience of the asymmetric keys, Microsoft has made it easy for users to encrypt their data.

### Recovering Data 01:25-02:29

By default, the only user that can decrypt files is the user who encrypted them. If that user account becomes corrupted somehow or the password is forgotten, any encrypted files are lost. To prevent this, we need to setup a Data Recovery Agent, or DRA.

The Data Recovery Agent, or DRA, is simply another account that can decrypt data that's been encrypted by other users on a Windows operating system.

In older versions of Windows, the system administrator was automatically configured as the DRA, but in newer versions, the DRA is not automatically defined.

Instead, you have to go into Group Policy on the local computer to setup the DRA.

When working on a Domain network, the DRA is defined in Active Directory.

Keeping the decryption keys safe is vital to protecting your data and being able to access it when needed.

To do this, you can backup the decryption keys to a USB drive. Then, if something catastrophic happens to the Windows system, you still have access to the files, you'll be able to decrypt the files using the backup of the decryption keys.

### Security Considerations 02:29-03:26

When using EFS, there are some security issues you need to keep in mind, such as what happens when files are moved.

If you move or copy an encrypted file to a different location on the same partition, or to another NTFS partition, your file will stay encrypted.

However, if you move or copy a file to a FAT based partition, the file will be decrypted automatically, as these file systems don't support encryption.

We need to be careful with this because by default, USB drives are formatted with the FAT32 or exFAT file systems as these are most compatible with other operating systems.

When you copy an encrypted file over, you won't be notified that the file is decrypted. This can lead to some serious security issues.

The other security concern is that the user's private key is protected only by their password. If the user has a weak password and the system is compromised, all encrypted files are vulnerable. It's absolutely vital that users have strong passwords and follow proper password security protocols.

### Summary 03:26-03:52

That's it for this lesson.

In this lesson we discussed EFS and how the encryption process works.

We then looked at why a Data Recovery Agent should be created so there's a second account that can access encrypted files in case something happens.

And finally, we reviewed some security considerations with EFS including moving encrypted files and using strong passwords.

## 7.4.2 Securing Files using EFS

### Secure Files Using EFS 00:00-00:56

In this demonstration, we'll secure files using the encrypted file system (EFS). EFS is a feature of the NTFS file system on Windows. EFS allows a user to encrypt a file in the file system and specify the users who can decrypt the file, view the file, and modify the file's contents. EFS provides an additional layer of security for the files in the file system.

NTFS permissions restrict access to files. EFS encrypts files to further protect their contents. By default, only the user who encrypts the file using EFS can decrypt the file and view its contents. However, you can set up a designated recovery agent (DRA) on the system. The DRA on a Windows system can decrypt any EFS-encrypted file on the system. Using a DRA can protect against being locked out of a file because a user account was deleted, corrupted, lost its certificate, or is otherwise unable to access the file.

### Set up Designated Recovery Agent 00:56-02:29

The first thing we'll do in this demonstration is set up a DRA on the Windows host. First, we need to be logged in as an administrator, as we are now. We need to open a command prompt; to do that we'll enter "Command Prompt" in the Search box and press Enter.

To add a DRA, we'll use the cipher command. Type 'cipher/?'. We'll look up an option up here. We'll go to the /R option. You can see, here, the /R option generates an EFS recovery key and certificate. It then writes them to a PFX file containing a certificate, a private key, and a CER file that contains only the certificate. An administrator may add the contents of the CER to the EFS recovery policy to create the recovery key for users and to import the PFX to recover individual files. That's what we're interested in.

We'll do that now. We'll type 'cipher /R:recovery'. Remember, the path is the C: > Users, which is the current directory. Next, we'll press Enter. The first thing we need to do is type a password to protect the .pfx file. We'll type that and confirm it.

We'll get a message that both the certificate (.cer file) and the .pfx file were successfully created. So now, if we enter a DIR (directory) command, we can see those two files here.

### Set up a Local Recovery Agent 02:29-04:07

Now that we've created the recovery file, we can use it to create a recovery agent. You can do this in two different ways. You can create a local recovery agent for this workstation, or you can create a domain-wide recovery agent. In this case, we'll create a local recovery agent for this machine.

The first thing we need to do is open a management console by typing 'MMC'. We'll add a snap-in for the Group Policy editor. Let's make this larger. We'll go to File > Add or Remove Snap-ins. We'll see the Group Policy object here. Select Editor. Click Add. Click Finish. You can see it is here now. We'll click OK.

We can see the local computer policy here. Let's make this a little bigger. Let's go to Computer Configuration > Windows > Security Settings > Public Key Policies. Under Object Type, let's right-click Encrypting File System. Now go to Add Data Recovery Agent. On this wizard, we'll click Next.

Now we can browse to and select the certificate file that we just created for the administrator. We'll click Browse Folders. We know we saved this at the root of the C: drive. So, we'll go to This PC and then to the C: drive. It's under the admin user; so, we go to Users > Administrator. We can see the recovery file right here.

Now we'll open the file. We get an error that says it can't determine if this certificate has been revoked. That's okay. We do want to go ahead and install the certificate. We can see the certificate right here. Click Next. Click Finish.

### Encrypt Files with EFS 04:07-05:52

Now, using the Add Recovery Agent wizard, we configured the Administrator user on this workstation as the DRA. Now, we can practice encrypting files with the EFS file system. But first, let's log off the Administrator account and switch to the test user. We'll right-click the window, and sign out.

Okay, now we are logged in as the test user. The first thing we'll do is open the file system. Let's go to this computer, or This PC, and go to the C: drive. On the C: drive, you can see we have the EFS folder that we created previously. If you open this, we have two files in here, encrypted and unencrypted. If we open them, you can see this one says, "This is sensitive information." The other one says, "This is not sensitive information."

Because both of these files are currently unencrypted—and because the test user account owns both of these files— we can open either one without a problem. Let's suppose this file labeled Encrypted contains very sensitive information that we want to protect. We want to strictly control who can view it. We want to implement a stronger security mechanism than just the NTFS alone. To achieve this objective, we'll encrypt it.

Let's right-click it. We'll go to Properties. On the General Properties tab, we'll click Advanced. We'll select Encrypt contents to secure data. We'll click OK and then Apply.

Then we get this message. It asks us if we want to encrypt the file and its parent folder, or encrypt the file only? In this case, we don't want to encrypt the parent folder because there's other files in the folder we don't want encrypted. We don't want the parent folder encrypted because we want to be able to get into it, as well. So, we'll encrypt the file only. Click OK.

### Examine Encrypted Files 05:52-07:49

Now that we've encrypted the file, click OK. Notice that the file icon now has a small lock. There is another way Windows can visually show which files are encrypted. The setting is controlled in File > Options > View settings. Scroll down.

You can see, right here, Show encrypted or compressed NTFS files in color. We could change that, but we'll leave it off. Be aware that there is another way to visually indicate that a file is encrypted.

If we double-click the file, you can see we can access its contents. That's because the file was encrypted using our account and certificate. We are able to decrypt the file, as well. Let's right-click this file again, and we'll go to its properties. Let's click the Advanced button again.

Now you can see that the Details button, here, is no longer grayed out like it was before. If we click Details, now we can see the user that encrypted it. We can also see the DRA, the administrator account that we added as the DRA for this system. This is good because if we got locked out of this file, this user, this DRA, can un-encrypt or decrypt that file for us.

Notice that we do have an option of adding additional users here. As you can see, there's only one user here. That's because the only user who has encrypted a file on the system or used EFS on the system is the test user. So, it's the only one who has a valid certificate right now.

To add users, we would have to log in to the system as that user and create an encrypted file at least once on the system. That would create a new certificate for that user. Once the user has done that, we are able to see that user on this list because the certificate has been created.

Also, the test user, could add another user to have access to decrypt that file. But until that point, we're not able to. So, if we want to add another user, the user must first encrypt a file on the system so the certificate's created. If not, we won't be able to add the user.

### Summary 07:49-08:14

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we secured files with EFS. We talked about the role and function of EFS. We looked at how to create a DRA for the system. Then we talked about how to encrypt a file. We ended this demonstration by explaining how to add users to the list of users allowed to decrypt a file.

## 7.4.4 PGP and GPG

### PGP and GPG 00:00-00:29

When you're encrypting files or emails, you need the help of a utility. Windows automates this process with either BitLocker or EFS. In a Unix-based operating system, such as Linux or Apple's OS X, we can use GNU Privacy Guard, or GPG. GPG is based on an older utility, Pretty Good Privacy, or PGP. In this lesson, we'll cover how both utilities work and how to use them.

### Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) 00:29-01:24

PGP is an encryption program first developed in 1991 based on the OpenPGP standard. PGP combines the use of symmetric and asymmetric keys and can be used to send encrypted messages and encrypt data.

To encrypt data, PGP generates a large, random one-time use session key that's used for encryption. The session key is then encrypted using the receiver's public key, and both are combined to send the encrypted message.

When the receiver gets the message, they use their private key to decrypt the session key, which is then used to decrypt the message.

Even though PGP is an old utility, it's still considered the standard for encrypting messages, because at the time this video was recorded, it's never been cracked. PGP was purchased a while ago and commercialized. It's owned by NortonLifeLock, formally known as Symantec, and provides products that can protect all sorts of devices, even smartphones.

### GNU Privacy Guard (GPG) 01:24-02:04

In response to PGP becoming a commercial product, GNU Privacy Guard was created in 1999. GPG is a command line utility that's used to encrypt and decrypt data and messages. GPG functions just like PGP. It uses both symmetric and asymmetric keys to encrypt and secure data and messages.

To generate a random session key, the user performs actions on the computer, such as typing on the keyboard or moving the mouse. This helps to ensure that the key is truly random.

Because it's an open-sourced utility, GPG can be used on many different systems, including Windows, Linux, Android, and Apple's OS X.

### Summary 02:04-02:31

That wraps up this lesson. In this video, we looked at two popular utilities for encrypting files and messages, Pretty Good Privacy and GNU Privacy Guard. Both utilities use a hybrid cryptographic model and are very secure. The biggest difference between them is that PGP is a commercial product, and GPG is a free open-source utility.

## 7.4.5 Encrypting Files with GPG

### Encrypting Files with GPG 00:00-00:37

In this demonstration, we're going to review how to encrypt files on a Linux system using GPG. The GPG utility is the open-source equivalent of the PGP utility.

First, we need to verify that GPG's installed on the system, so we're going to type ‘gpg –version'. As you can see here, it'll show us the version information. It wouldn't show this if GPG wasn't installed. Most Linux distributions should have this installed by default. It's currently installed on the system. Let's go ahead and clear our screen.

### Key Pair 00:37-01:29

Now we need to generate a key pair. To do that, we're going to type ‘gpg --gen-key'. If you want to have more customization, you can use the full-featured key generation dialog as listed. It wants to know the real name. We're just going to put our username in this field, rmckay. Our email address is rmckay@testout.com. This last menu wants us to verify the information. We'll okay it.

Another dialog box will come up asking us to enter a passphrase. For this demo, I'm just going to use the word ‘TestOut'. This gives us a warning, saying it's an unsecure passphrase. Normally, you would make this password more secure, but for now, we're going to leave it as-is. We'll re-enter the same passphrase. Now our public and secret keys are created.

### Encrypt a File 01:29-02:04

We're going to encrypt an example file in our Home directory. It's called example.txt. We can see this by doing an ‘ll' to list the directory.

Now we want to go ahead and encrypt our file using GPG. You don't have to specify the entire directory path of the file if you're in the directory where the file exists.

To encrypt, we're going to type in ‘gpg -e example.txt' and then the name that we created, ‘rmckay'. Then we're going to click Enter twice, as there's no more information we need to add.

### Encrypted File Contents 02:04-02:34

Now, if we type ‘ll' and look, we can see the original example.txt, and we can see the encrypted version of example.txt.gpg. If we use the CAT command to view this encrypted version of the file, you can see that it's all scrambled. Clearly, we can't read the file or tell what it says. At this point, obviously, we need to decrypt this file before we can read it. That's what we're going to do next. I'm just going to clear the screen again.

### Decrypt a File 02:34-03:17

Now, we're going to type ‘gpg –output'. We're going to follow this with the file name for the new decrypted file that we're going to create, ‘example.txt.decrypted'. Okay. Now we're going to do ‘--decrypt example.txt.gpg'.

In this case, we're decrypting with the same user we created a public and private key with, so it won't prompt us for a password. Okay. Now we can use ‘ll' to list the files. We see our decrypted file right here. If we use the CAT command, we see what's inside example.txt.decrypted. This verifies that the GPG utility successfully decrypted the file.

### Summary 03:17-03:28

That's it for this demonstration. We discussed how to encrypt and decrypt files in a Linux system using GPG.

## 7.4.6 BitLocker and Database Encryption

### BitLocker and Database Encryption 00:00-00:23

Organizations often store sensitive data on devices and in databases. Implementing proper data encryption is key to securing this sensitive data. Using BitLocker and proper database encryption can help protect data if a physical device, such as a laptop, is stolen or if a hacker gains access to a database.

### BitLocker 00:23-03:29

A lost or stolen computer can be catastrophic to an organization if it holds confidential information. With the release of Windows Vista, Microsoft introduced BitLocker to address this concern. BitLocker is a powerful encryption tool that, instead of encrypting individual files and folders, encrypts an entire volume, including operating system files. BitLocker is designed to protect data from unauthorized access, even if the drive is moved to another computer.

It's important to note that BitLocker isn't available on Home editions of Windows.

To implement BitLocker on a computer, the hard disk must be partitioned with two volumes. The system, or boot, volume contains the Windows boot files and is created during Windows installation. The standard volume contains all other data. The system volume won't be encrypted, but the standard volume will be.

One of the newer features of BitLocker in Windows 10 is the ability to only encrypt used space. This makes the encryption process so much faster. Previously, the entire drive, even space not in use, was encrypted. This process could take hours depending on the size of the drive.

BitLocker can also use the computer's Trusted Platform Module, or TPM, chip to verify the integrity of the system's boot files as long as the chip is at least version 1.2. It does this by encrypting the boot files and stores the encryption key in the TPM chip. When you log in to Windows, BitLocker automatically unlocks the encrypted drive. If the drive is moved to another computer, the encryption key won't match up, and the drive can't be accessed. It's possible to configure BitLocker to protect the system files without having a TPM chip, but you have to insert a startup USB key or have a system volume password enabled to boot into Windows.

When BitLocker is enabled, Windows creates the recovery key. This randomly generated key will be used if the hard drive needs to be moved to a different system, if changes are made to the startup files, or if BitLocker goes into a locked state and needs to be accessed. The recovery key is different from the user-generated password created during the configuration process.

Obviously, this is an incredibly important key. Windows gives you the option to save the key to your Microsoft Account, a USB flash drive, or a file on the local computer. You can also print the key out, and if you're on a domain, you can store the key in Active Directory. It's a good idea to back up this key multiple ways and then store it safely locked.

If you're on a domain, there are additional options for recovering data if the user password is lost. Using the stored recovery key would be the first and easiest option, especially if the key was stored in Active Directory. If the key can't be found, a Data Recovery Agent, or DRA, can be used. The DRA is just another account that has rights to decrypt the drive. This option must first be configured in Group Policy. If the hard drive contains the OS files, it'll need to be installed in another system as a data drive before the DRA can decrypt it.

When implemented properly, BitLocker is a powerful tool that can be used to protect data in case a laptop or other device that contains sensitive information is stolen or lost.

### Database Encryption 03:29-04:09

Many organizations store important sensitive data, such as customer billing information, in databases. Keeping this data encrypted helps protect it if a hacker ever gains access to the database.

The three main methods of database encryption are transparent, column-level, and application-level. Before we look at these methods in detail, let's review the structure of a database.

Databases are made up of multiple tables that use columns and rows filled with data. For example, we might have a table labeled Customers. In that table, we have columns labeled Name, Number, Email, and Address. The rows in each column are filled with the pertinent information.

### Transparent Data Encryption (TDE) 04:09-04:29

Transparent data encryption, or TDE, encrypts the entire database and all backups. TDE is used for data at rest--data that's not in current use. This method is called transparent encryption because when an authorized user needs to access the data, it's automatically decrypted, so the user doesn't see the process or need to do anything extra.

### Column-Level Encryption 04:29-04:43

Column-level encryption allows the administrator to encrypt each column using different keys. This increases security because multiple encryption keys are required to access all of the data. Keep in mind that this method does slow the database's performance.

### Application-Level Encryption 04:43-05:10

In application-level encryption, the program that's used to create or modify the data is responsible for encrypting the data. This works well because the data is encrypted before it even hits the database. The drawback of this method is that the amount of resources required for setup can be prohibitive.

When an organization maintains sensitive data, they need to ensure that it's kept safe. Any of the methods in this video will help keep databases secure.

### Summary 05:10-05:31

That wraps up this lesson. We've covered some solutions for encrypting sensitive data. BitLocker can be used to encrypt an entire hard drive or volume, which will prevent access if a device is stolen. And there are several methods an organization can use to encrypt sensitive data that's stored in databases.

## 7.4.7 Configuring BitLocker

### Configuring BitLocker 00:00-00:10

In this demonstration, we're going to look at how you can use BitLocker to encrypt the operating system on a Windows system.

### TPM Requirement 00:10-01:05

Typically, one of the requirements for BitLocker is that you have a TPM chip on the motherboard of your system. The system I use for demos is a virtual machine that I only use for demonstrations, and it doesn't have a TPM chip. So I'm starting this demo on a different machine to show you where to turn on the TPM in the BIOS so you know how to do that.

Now, depending on your system, your BIOS screen will look different from mine, and you'll have to look around for the TPM security. On this system, I'll go to Security and then down to TPM Security. Over in the pane to the right, I'll check the box for TPM Security. Then I'll come down and click on Apply. When I do that, I'm presented with another screen. I can activate TPM from here if I want to. Then I'll click on Apply and then Exit the BIOS to continue to boot Windows. Let's go back to our demo machine and configure BitLocker there.

### Group Policy Setting for BitLocker 01:05-02:01

Remember, the system we're going to configure BitLocker on doesn't have a TPM chip. If I go to Control Panel, System and Security, BitLocker Drive Encryption and try to turn on BitLocker, you see I get this error. It tells me that since I don't have a TPM module, I can't set up BitLocker.

But look at this note that tells us there's a Group Policy setting we can enable to allow us to use BitLocker to encrypt an operating system drive without a TPM chip. Let's go ahead and do that. First, we're going to close out of Control Panel and then go to our Group Policy Manager. We're going to expand this. Now, in Group Policy Manager, the first thing we're going to do is look at and expand our Administrative Templates under Computer Configuration. Then we're going to go to Windows Components, BitLocker Drive Encryption.

### Drive Type Options 02:01-02:20

We have three options under BitLocker Drive Encryption: Fixed Data Drives, Operating System Drives, and Removable Data Drives. In this case, we're only going to worry about our operating system drives. With this selected, we're going to go over here and locate Require additional authentication at startup.

### Startup Options 02:20-03:54

We'll go into this policy and enable it. Notice, when I do that, by default, it turns this option on, which allows BitLocker to encrypt an operating system drive with just a password or startup key on a USB flash drive.

That means we have two different options with this policy enabled. If our motherboard doesn't have a TPM chip installed on it, then we can use a password to encrypt the operating system drive. Then we'd have to supply a password every time we rebooted the system. Or we can save the startup key that's used to encrypt the drive on a USB flash drive. If we select that option, then every time we reboot the computer, that flash drive will have to be connected to the system for it to decrypt the operating system drive.

Let's go ahead and enable this policy. I can see it's enabled. We'll close Group Policy Manager. Now we can go back into our Control Panel, System and Security, BitLocker Drive Encryption. At this point, we can select Turn on BitLocker. As we said earlier, we can use a USB drive connected to the system, or we can enter a password.

In earlier versions of Windows, like Windows 7, this was the only option you had. You had to use a USB flash drive, which contained your startup key. But in Windows 10, you can use this option, which is pretty convenient. It allows us to enter a password to encrypt the drive. Let's go ahead and select that option. Then we'll go ahead and enter a password that will be used to unlock the drive after it's been encrypted. Click Next.

### Key Backup 03:54-04:56

At this point, before we go any further, you have to remember this password. If you forget it, you can't unlock the drive. There's no way you can ever get into it again. In fact, it's so important that it says, "Hey, you really should back up your recovery key." They have a couple of different options for backing up the key. We can back it up to a Microsoft account, we can save to a USB flash drive, save it to file, or we can print the recovery key.

Now, in this case, we're going to go ahead and save it to a USB flash drive. If we saved it to a file, one thing to remember is you can't save this file to the local computer that you're going to be encrypting. If you do and you encrypt it, but you don't have the key and you forget your password, you won't be able to get back in to get the key. So you should really save it somewhere other than the local hard drive that you're encrypting. Otherwise, it's kind of useless.

Let's go ahead and click Save to a USB flash drive. I select my Storage drive, click Save, and then click Next.

### Data to Encrypt 04:56-05:28

Now we have to decide how much of the drive we want encrypt. We have two different options. The first option is Encrypt used disk space only. It's faster, and it's the best choice for new PC drives. If I don't have a lot of data on this computer, it's probably best to use this option.

If I do have a lot of data and I want it all encrypted, then I'll choose Encrypt the entire drive. It's slower, but it's best for PC drives that you've been using for a while. That way, all your data gets encrypted. Let's click Next.

### Encryption Mode 05:28-06:26

Now, this asks what type of encryption mode we want to use. There's the New encryption mode. It's best for fixed drives on this device. And there's the Compatible mode. It's best for drives that can be moved from this device. We choose that if we're going to pull the drive out. We'll select the option for fixed drives.

Now we're going to allow it to run the BitLocker system check. We're going to click Continue to encrypt. The first thing we need to do is restart the computer, so select Restart. My computer has restarted. It prompts me to put in my key on boot. I enter my key, and now I'm logging back into the system.

Now we're logged into the system again, and it's booted back up. Let's go down here, and we can highlight this icon. You can see that it says Encryption of C: by BitLocker Drive Encryption is in progress. So, currently, we're encrypting the drive. This might take a little while to go through. It just depends on how much information and data you have on the system.

### Summary 06:26-06:58

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we turned on TPM Security on a motherboard. Then we configured BitLocker on a system that doesn't have a TPM chip on the motherboard. We looked at how you configure the necessary local group policies to allow BitLocker to encrypt the system drive using either a USB key or a password. Then we discussed how to configure BitLocker drive encryption on a Windows 10 system drive.

## 7.4.9 File Encryption Facts

Encryption of files, directories, and hard drives provides an additional level of data security. File encryption is part of a layered defense strategy and helps to protect confidential data in the event that system data is hacked, lost, or stolen. There are different methods that can be used to encrypt data or entire hard drives.

This lesson covers the following topics:



### Encrypting File System (EFS)

The Encrypting File System (EFS) was introduced with NTFS version 3 and has been included in every version of Windows since Windows 2000 except for in the Home editions. EFS provides an easy and seamless way for users to encrypt files on their Windows computers. EFS is only used to encrypt individual files and folders.

EFS combines the speed of symmetric encryption with the convenience of asymmetric encryption, using a process called key encapsulation. The process for a user to encrypt a file is as follows:



The encryption and decryption process relies on the user's password being kept safe. If the user account becomes corrupted or the password is forgotten, any encrypted files are lost. To help remedy this, a data recovery agent (DRA) can be set up. The DRA is simply another account that can decrypt the encrypted files.


Additional security considerations are:


### PGP and GPG

GNU Privacy Guard (GPG) is an encryption tool that encrypts emails, digitally signs emails, and encrypts documents. GPG is an implementation of the Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) Protocol. PGP is a commercial product that is now owned by Symantec and makes products that can be used to protect laptops, desktops, USB drives, optical media, and smartphones.

Both PGP and GPG do the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Follow the OpenPGP standard (RFC 4880) for encrypting and decrypting data.
   </li>
   <li>
    Combine asymmetric and symmetric cryptography. The process is as follows:
    <br>
    <br>
    <ol>
     <li>
      GPG/PGP generates a random symmetric key and uses it to encrypt the message.
     </li>
     <li>
      The symmetric key is then encrypted using the receiver's public key and sent along with the message.
     </li>
     <li>
      When the recipient receives a message, GPG/PGP first decrypts the symmetric key with the recipient's private
          key.
     </li>
     <li>
      The decrypted symmetric key is then used to decrypt the rest of the message.
     </li>
    </ol>
   </li>
  </ul>

GPG supports many common algorithms including RSA, DSA, 3DES, IDEA, MD5, SHA, and more. AES is used by default.

PGP can use either RSA or the Diffie-Hellman algorithm for asymmetric encryption and IDEA for symmetric encryption.

### BitLocker 

BitLocker was introduced in Windows Vista and is used to encrypt an entire volume, not just individual files and folders. BitLocker is designed to protect all data on a volume even if the hard drive is moved to another computer.


### Database Encryption

Today, many organizations store sensitive data such as customer billing information in databases. Keeping this data encrypted helps protect it if a hacker ever gains access to the database. Databases consist of multiple tables that use columns and rows to store data.

The following table describes the three main methods of data encryption:

