---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 14.2 Controls and Frameworks
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What is an example of a managerial control?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference between operational and technical controls?
    </li>
    <li>
     Name a corrective control.
    </li>
    <li>
     What role does a compensating control play?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Distinguish between control categories.
    </li>
    <li>
     Identify the types of controls that are needed during a network breach.
    </li>
    <li>
     Name each control type and what it does for network security.
    </li>
</ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Managerial controls
    </td>
    <td>
     A category of controls that uses management techniques, such as policies.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Operational controls
    </td>
    <td>
     A control category that deals with every day tasks and functions.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Technical controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Controls that use software and security appliances.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Preventative controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Preventative controls, such as IPS, are used to prevent security breaches.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Detective controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Detective controls monitor network activity and inform the security team of a potential security event.
        Detective controls also log activities and provide artifacts to help investigate the event. Intrusion detection systems are
        an example of detective controls.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Corrective controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Corrective controls attempt to fix any controls that aren't working properly.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Deterrent controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Deterrent controls discourage malicious actors from attempting to breach a network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Compensating controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Compensating controls are a partial control solution that is implemented when a control cannot fully
        meet a requirement.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Physical controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Physical controls keep unauthorized people from physically accessing an organization’s assets.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     1.2 Harden Authentication
     <blockquote>
      1.2.4 Enforce User Account Control (UAC)
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Comptia Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     5.1. Compare and contrast various types of controls.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Category
       <ul>
        <li>
         Managerial
        </li>
        <li>
         Operational
        </li>
        <li>
         Technical
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Control type
       <ul>
        <li>
         Preventative
        </li>
        <li>
         Detective
        </li>
        <li>
         Corrective
        </li>
        <li>
         Deterrent
        </li>
        <li>
         Compensating
        </li>
        <li>
         Physical
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 14.2.1 Control Categories and Types

### Control Categories and Types 00:00-00:18

In this video, I'll discuss security control categories and types. As a security professional, your job is to protect the company's assets and business. This means that you're there to prevent hazardous events or to minimize their damage. Let's get started.

### Managerial 00:18-00:38

Managerial controls consist of management techniques and administrative procedures. These can include security policies, hiring policies, disaster recovery plans, or DPRs, and business continuity plans, or BCPs. You should always include written plans for how and when to escalate events and when you need to consult outside help.

### Operational 00:38-00:50

Operational controls are ones that the security team performs everyday. These might include reviewing network monitoring data, ensuring that security cameras are working, and requiring visitors to sign in.

### Technical 00:50-01:04

Technical controls are based around software, applications, and security appliances. These controls vary greatly by company. Some examples you might see in your line of work are IDSs, IPSs, access control apps, and ASAs.

### Preventative 01:04-01:40

We use preventative controls for security breaches, but you might see these tools used with other control types as well. The easiest preventative control is an Advance Network Appliance, which is sometimes also called an Adaptive Security Appliance, or ASA. This is basically a firewall and router combination that's capable of hosting IDSs and IPSs. A less expensive preventative control is a simple updated antivirus, considering that these have improved drastically over the years. Office access control is also an excellent preventative control, especially if you're using biometrics.

### Detective 01:40-01:57

Detective controls inform the security team of an event that's occurring or provide them with logs and artifacts to them help investigate the event further. Examples would be network monitoring applications, log collectors, real-time monitoring alerts, and intrusion detection systems, or IDSs.

### Corrective 01:57-02:23

Corrective controls are those that attempt to fix any damage caused by an event. These tools work during and after the course of the event. Think of this as a form of risk mitigation. For example, an intrusion prevention system, or IPS, is designed to intercept packets that are potentially malicious and either drop or isolate them. Another example is endpoint protection, which works to stop malicious data by looking at its signature or behavior.

### Deterrent 02:23-02:50

The deterrent control type discourages malicious actors from trying to breach a network. The more deterrents you have, the less likely it is that anyone will try. These could include internal security policies, access-protected doors for a server room, entry-point access restriction, biometric sensors, man traps, security cameras, security training, and security guards. Remember, the stronger the deterrents, the less likely it is that a breach occurs.

### Compensating 02:50-03:13

A compensating control is one that doesn't stop an event, but instead helps by making up for the damage done. The perfect example is data backups. If a company gets hit with malware that deletes data, locks files, or makes data inaccessible, the IT team can revert to the latest backup. Depending on the extent of the damage, good backups can have critical servers back online within minutes.

### Physical 03:13-03:42

Physical deterrents keep unauthorized people from physically accessing a company's assets. So locked doors, proximity cards, fences, cameras, and guards are all ways to physically protect your network. Motion detectors for after-hours monitoring is another example.

Please note that device management is often overlooked by companies. With the prevalence of mobile devices, your company should be able to remotely wipe any devices that are lost or stolen. Let's look at some scenarios.

### Physical Scenarios 03:42-04:19

Let's say that a biometric thumbprint scanner has been installed in the lobby of your building. It requires everyone to scan their thumb to gain access. A malicious actor tries to enter, but their print doesn't match. An access-denied alert is flashed on the screen, and the IT team is fully aware of what's happening. Usually, the imposter doesn't stay around to be questioned!

Another common ploy is for an imposter to try and take advantage of a person's kindness. In this case, an imposter tries to gain entrance from a legitimate employee's proximity badge by claiming to have forgotten theirs. Hopefully, the employee remembers their security training and politely tells the imposter, "No."

### Summary 04:19-04:44

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we learned about control categories as well as control types. Categories include managerial, operational, and technical. The security control types we learned about are preventative, corrective, deterrent, compensating, and physical. You should use all of these tools together to help you create a secure network.

## 14.2.2 Control Categories and Types Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Control categories
- Control types

### Control Categories

Control categories define techniques used to protect network data and security. Three major categories have been defined for network security: managerial, operational, and technical.

<ul>
   <li>
    Managerial controls (consist of management techniques and administrative procedures)
   </li>
   <li>
    Operational controls (performed everyday by the security team)
   </li>
   <li>
    Technical controls (based around software, applications, and security appliances)
   </li>
</ul>

### Control Types

Control types consist of different strategies to prevent, detect, mitigate, and correct any network breach. A company's size and financial budget are determining factors in the selection of applications for these control types.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Control Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Preventative
    </td>
    <td>
     Preventative controls are used to prevent security breaches. Many tools used in these controls are also
        used in other control types. The easiest preventative control is an advanced network appliance, which is sometimes called
        an adaptive security appliance (ASA). This is a firewall and router combination that is capable of hosting IDSs and IPSs.
     <br>
     <br>
     A less expensive preventative control is an updated antivirus, which have improved drastically over the years. Office
        access control is also an excellent preventative control, especially if biometrics are used.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Detective
    </td>
    <td>
     Detective controls inform the security team of an event that is occurring and provide logs and other
        artifacts to help investigate the event. Examples would be intrusion detection systems (IDSs), network monitoring
        applications, log collectors, and real-time monitoring alerts.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Corrective
    </td>
    <td>
     Corrective controls are those that attempt to fix any damage caused by an event. These tools work
        during the event and after the event is over. Think of this as a form of risk mitigation.
     <br>
     <br>
     For example, an intrusion prevention system is designed to intercept data that is potentially malicious and either
        drop the packet or isolate it. Another example is endpoint protection that works to stop malicious data identified by its
        signature, behavior, or other known identifiers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Deterrent
    </td>
    <td>
     The deterrent type of control discourages malicious actors from attempting to try to breach a network.
        The more deterrents, the less likely an event will occur. This could include security policies, access-protected doors for
        a server room, entry-point access restriction, biometric sensors, man traps, security cameras, security training, and
        security guards.
     <br>
     <br>
     Remember that the stronger the deterrents, the less likely a breach will occur.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Compensating
    </td>
    <td>
     A compensating control is one that does not stop an event, but it helps by making up for damage done.
        The perfect example is data backups. If a company gets hit with malware that deletes data, locks files, or otherwise makes
        the company’s data inaccessible, the IT team can revert to the latest backup. Depending on the extent of the damage, good
        backups can have critical servers back online within minutes.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Physical
    </td>
    <td>
     Physical deterrents keep unauthorized people from physically accessing a company’s assets. Locked
        doors, proximity cards, fences, cameras, and guards are all ways to physically protect your network. Motion detectors for
        after-hours monitoring is another example.
     <br>
     <br>
     Device management is often overlooked. With the prevalence of mobile devices, a company must be able to remotely wipe
        devices that are lost or stolen.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This table gives a high-level view of each control type, but there are many more variations available. Selecting the right application requires research and trials to ensure the proper application is found for a specific need.

## 14.2.3 Security Frameworks

### Security Frameworks 00:00-00:16

In this video, I'll go over some regulations, laws, and standards that impact an organization's security posture. I'll show you a few security frameworks and how they work with local, state, and international regulations.

### GDPR 00:16-01:20

In May of 2018, the European Union instituted a far-reaching regulation that covered personal data protection. The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, changed the way in which EU companies handled personal data. This regulation brought concepts like the right to be forgotten and the ability for individuals to demand accountability from companies for their personally identifiable information, or PII. This meant transparency in terms of how their PII is used and who the company can sell it to. The regulation was broad and applied to any companies doing business in the EU and any companies that had the personal data of an EU citizen.

GDPR also required companies to update their privacy policies as well as their cookie-use policies. These terms had to be written in layman's terms for the user's benefit. No more legalese. It also required these policies to be easy to find. That's why you see pop-up windows about cookies and privacy when you go to many websites. Implementing the necessary changes cost many millions of dollars and non-compliance carries steep monetary penalties.

### National and State Laws 01:20-01:56

GDPR was not the first law regarding privacy and network security. Countries like Russia, Japan, and Australia also have data privacy laws. In June of 2020, California implemented the California Consumer Privacy Act. Much like GDPR, the CCPA requires greater transparency from companies about any Californian's data. This trend of privacy laws is gathering momentum, and there are dozens of states working on their own versions.

Let's not forget about HIPAA in the U.S. HIPAA has been around since 1996, with additions in 2013. This law covers protected health information, or PHI.

### Credit Card Industry Data-Security Standard 01:56-02:19

PCI DSS is the standard that major credit card issuers require vendors to comply with if they accept credit cards. Unlike laws and regulations, PCI is a contractual obligation imposed by the credit card company. This obligation contains 12 major requirements that deal with network design and security policy implementation regarding data access.

### CIS 02:19-02:47

The Center for Internet Security, or CIS, is a non-profit that offers free security tools to the business community. They offer benchmarks, threat-update controls, and hardened images. Benchmarks provide configuration guidelines to keep your network safe. CIS has benchmarks for operating systems, mobile devices, desktop software, network appliances, and even cloud providers. There are hundreds of benchmarks to choose from. Membership is free and so are the downloadable benchmarks.

### NIST 02:47-03:55

The National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST, is one of the largest security frameworks with extensive publications on the topic of security. NIST's publications are used by the federal government and all its departments, including the Department of Defense. NIST's cybersecurity frameworks are the gold standard in our business, and they have numerous targeted frameworks within the cybersecurity realm.

NIST has frameworks for cybersecurity, risk management, and privacy. Each of these areas fall under the security vertical and are critical to a solid cyber defense and contingency plan. The NIST security framework families are used to evaluate the security posture of government agencies as well as government vendors. Many private companies also use NIST as their standard for vendors since the standard is so robust. Whether a company needs guidance in security controls, compliance, cloud security, cryptography, access controls, or a myriad of other security-related topics, NIST has a publication for it. NIST 800-53 Rev. 5, for example, is the security and privacy controls standard for information systems and organizations. There are hundreds more.

### ISO 03:55-04:43

The International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, is a worldwide organization that's currently the standardization body in 164 different countries. ISO 27001 is the publication that covers implementing and improving a security management system as well as an assessment guideline. Publication 27002 lays out guidelines for selecting and implementing security controls. NIST 31000 covers risk management as it pertains to business continuity, safety, environmental results, and professional reputation. ISO 27701 covers establishing, implementing, and improving a Privacy Information Management system. This is geared towards companies that need to comply with privacy laws and regulations.

### SSAE SOC Type II/III 04:43-05:27

The System and Organization Controls, or SOC, is made up of controls. It has 3 types of reports that help a third party determine how a company is adhering to systems and controls through an audit. The types of SOC reports we discuss are Type II and Type III. SOC Type II reports focus on predetermined controls that are audited and a detailed report that attests to the audited company's compliance. Type II is a non-financial report about controls as they relate to processing, integrity, security, availability, confidentiality, and network privacy. Type III is a non-detailed report that attests to the company's compliance. This type of report is used for marketing and letting future partners know that the company has met compliance standards.

### Cloud Security Alliance 05:27-05:57

The CSA is a relatively new, 10-year-old security framework. CSA stands for Cloud Security Alliace. With the exponential growth of cloud computing, the need for a cloud security framework was crucial. Along with best practices in cloud security, CSA also introduced the first cloud-centric individual certification. CSA works because it aggregates the best security practices from all business and educational verticals. This ensures that a company meets their individual framework needs with relevant and up-to-date information.

### Cloud Control Matrix 05:57-06:21

Within CSA, there's something called a cloud control matrix. This matrix is a guide to assist prospective cloud users in evaluating a cloud provider's security risk. This matrix also helps cloud providers integrate fundamental security principles into their services. It works with frameworks like NIST, ISO 27001, and ISO 27002.

### Summary 06:21-06:51

That's it for this video. There are several layers of laws, regulations, and contractual obligations you should be aware of. We covered a few of them, like the European Union's GDPR, HIPAA, local and state laws, and PCI. We covered security frameworks like NIST, ISO, and SOC Type II and III reports. We also spoke about cloud-centric security with the CSA and their unique tool called the cloud control matrix.

## 14.2.4 Security Frameworks Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Laws, regulations, and compliance
- Security frameworks
- Cloud security

### Laws, Regulations, and Compliance

Compliance with local, national, and international security regulations and laws is now part of daily operations. These requirements cover close to all data that is collected, used, stored, and shared. These requirements have many variables that include but are not limited to: industry, size of company, types of PII, and the use of data.

Substantial financial penalties are levied when a company is found non-compliant. The services of legal advisors is highly recommended to ensure compliance. The two most important laws in recent memory are the GDPR, or the General Data Protection Regulation of the European Union, and the California Consumer Protection Act

### Security Frameworks

Security frameworks provide a guide or roadmap to compliance requirements. In many instances, the framework provides various levels of compliance. These levels often correspond with the size of government.

<table class="terms">
    <thead>
     <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
      Security Framework
     </th>
     <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
      Description
     </th>
    </tr></thead>
    <tbody><tr>
     <td>
      NIST
     </td>
     <td>
      The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is one of the largest security frameworks. It
      is used by the federal government and all its departments, including the Department of Defense. 
		Security is one of the many verticals that NIST provides guidance for, 
		and NIST's cybersecurity frameworks are the
      gold standard in our business.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      ISO
     </td>
     <td>
      The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) is a worldwide organization 
		that is currently the
      standardizing body in 164 different countries. Publication available are:
      <ul>
       <li>
        ISO 27001 is the publication that covers implementing and improving a security
      management system as well as an assessment guideline.
       </li>
       <li>
        Publication 27002 lays out guidelines for selecting and implementing
      security controls.
       </li>
       <li>
        ISO 31000 covers risk management as it pertains to business continuity, safety, environmental results, and the professional reputation of a company.
       </li>
       <li>
        ISO 27701 covers establishing, implementing, and improving a privacy
      information management system. This is geared towards companies that need to comply with privacy laws and regulations.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      SOC Type II/III
     </td>
     <td>
      The System and Organization Controls (SOC) has three types of reports that help a
      third party determine (through an audit) how a company is adhering to systems and controls. The types of SOC reports we
      will discuss are Type II and Type III.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Type II reports focus on predetermined controls that are audited and a detailed
      report that attests to the company’s compliance.
	  It is a non-financial report and it relates to processing, integrity, security, availability, confidentiality, and network privacy.
       </li>
       <li>
        Type III is a non-detailed report
      attesting to the company’s compliance. This type of report is used for marketing 
		and letting future partners know that
      compliance has been met.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Cloud Security

The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) is a relatively new, ten-year-old security framework. With the exponential growth of cloud computing, the need for a cloud security framework was crucial.

Along with best practices in cloud security, CSA also introduced the first cloud-centric individual certification. It works because it aggregates best security practices from all business and educational verticals. This ensures that the individual framework needs of each company are met using relevant, up-to-date information.

Within CSA, there is a Cloud Control Matrix (CCM). This matrix is a guide to assist prospective cloud users in evaluating a cloud provider's security risk. This matrix also helps cloud providers integrate fundamental security principles into their services. It works with frameworks like NIST, ISO 27001, and ISO 27002. The function of CSA and CCM are:

<ul>
    <li>
     CSA
     <ul>
      <li>
       Provides cloud security framework
      </li>
      <li>
       Compiles best practices
      </li>
     </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
     Cloud Control Matrix
     <ul>
      <li>
       Provides security guide for cloud users
      </li>
      <li>
       Works with major security frameworks
      </li>
     </ul>
    </li>
</ul>

It is important that, as a security professional, you keep current with changes to laws, regulations, and frameworks.
