---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 14.1 Audits
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What is an audit?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the different types of audits?
    </li>
    <li>
     How do the types of audits differ from one another?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Audit Windows security logs.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure advanced audit policies.
    </li>
    <li>
     Enable device logs.
    </li>
</ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Risk mitigation
    </td>
    <td>
     Strategies to reduce a company's exposure to various risks.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Permissions auditing
    </td>
    <td>
     Reviewing permissions of users and groups. An important function of permissions auditing is to verify
        that accounts, groups, and roles adhere to principle of least privilege.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Usage auditing
    </td>
    <td>
     Usage auditing reviews how systems are used. An important function of usage auditing is to verify that
        systems are used appropriately and in accordance with written organizational policies.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Audit logs
    </td>
    <td>
     Audit logs are logs that track activity on a system.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
     1.2 Harden Authentication
     <blockquote>
      1.2.1 Configure Account Policies
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td valign="top">
     3.7 Given a scenario, implement identity and account management controls.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Account policies
       <ul>
        <li>
         Account audits
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 14.1.1 Audits

### IT Auditing 00:00-00:17

In this video, we'll look at IT auditing, which is a branch of general auditing. IT auditors primarily study computer systems and networks. They examine the effectiveness of technical and procedural controls to minimize risks.

### Examples of Risk 00:17-00:45

IT auditors investigate several issues including inadequate information security, such as antivirus definition files that are out of date. They identify inefficient use of corporate resources, like spending too much money on unnecessary IT projects. IT auditors also try to detect weak policies and procedures within the system. Lastly, they expose IT-related fraud and information theft. Some IT audits are actually required by certain industries and governing bodies.

### Risk Mitigation 00:45-01:17

Typically, an organization's management calls in auditors to review systems and processes. An IT audit evaluates the security posture of an organization and looks for risks. If any are found, the auditors recommend mitigation strategies. These mitigation strategies are given to the company in a formal report. An example of IT auditing is a user access and rights review. This type of review can help determine whether granting certain privileges is appropriate and whether computer usage and escalation processes are in place and working.

### Permissions Auditing 01:17-01:45

Privilege, or permission, auditing means verifying that accounts, groups, and roles adhere to principle of least privilege (PoLP).

For example, if you have an employee that transferred departments a couple of times, they were likely given additional rights to function in their new department. These types of risk should be caught by IT admins long before the auditor appears. Privilege creep occurs when a user is given unneeded permissions or retains past role-specific permissions.

### Usage Auditing 01:45-02:00

Usage auditing verifies that systems are utilized appropriately and in accordance with written organizational policies. They also ensure that rights are necessary for specific groups. If a granted right isn't used by a group, they may not need access to it.

### Audit Logs 02:00-02:35

Audit logs are unique logs that track user activity on a system. An audit log, or audit trail, is a chronological sequence of audit records. The most overlooked step in the auditing process is regularly reviewing audit logs. Skillful auditing requires balancing security needs with the number of entries to review. You don't want to audit too little or too much. Audit logs grow according to your network traffic and can quickly become overwhelmingly large. This is why most savvy IT admins use monitoring tools. These tools can be customized to only pull the logs you wish to see.

### Protecting Audit Logs 02:35-03:08

Typical information included in audited events are the date and time of an action, the identity of the user, the specific event, and whether the action was successful or not.

Audit logs should be safeguarded. Access controls work best by restricting usage and access to logs. To further protect them against tampering, audit logs can be recorded to write-once media. If an audit log fails to record events, the appropriate personnel should be notified immediately. In the case of an incident, the most useful audit logs are the ones that have been attacked, not the source system.

### Sarbanes-Oxley 03:08-03:41

The Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, came about because of corporate malfeasance by some of the largest corporations in the world. Because of this, most public companies and all finance-related companies are required to go through specific audits that focus on IT security, access controls, data backup, and change management. These audits relate to a company's internal controls, and failed audits can have severe consequences. Senior corporate officers may be held criminally liable. The stakes are high.

### PCI Compliance 03:41-04:10

Many companies use credit cards in their day-to-day operations. It's imperative that companies protect credit card information against data theft or loss.

Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance is a list of policies enforced by major credit card firms that detail the procedures businesses should follow to secure credit card information. If a company fails these audits, they could face substantial fines. They could be banned from taking credit card payments by the issuers and perhaps lose consumer confidence.

### Summary 04:10-04:35

That's it for this lesson.

In this video, we looked at the basics of IT auditing. IT auditors review policies and procedures and conduct user access and rights reviews. We discussed the importance of audit logs and how to secure them. We finished with SOX auditing and PCI compliance and talked about the potential problems that could follow non-compliance.

## 14.1.2 Audit Facts

An **audit** is the process of examining logs and relevant resources, settings, and documentation to ensure that past actions and current configuration settings match the written security policy and that no unauthorized actions have taken place. It also examines adherence to compliance requirements, laws, and regulations.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Internal audits
   </li>
   <li>
    External audits
   </li>
   <li>
    IT Security audits
   </li>
   <li>
    Financial audits
   </li>
</ul>

### Internal Audits

An internal auditor is an employee within an organization who examines existing internal controls and maps the security structure for compliance with statutes and management's goals. Internal auditors are familiar with the organization and its goals, but might not have the skills of an external auditor. Therefore, their findings might be viewed as:

<ul>
   <li>
    Not as formal
   </li>
   <li>
    Not objective
   </li>
   <ul>
    <li>
     Internal audits focus on improvement and don't negatively affect customer contracts.
    </li>
    <li>
     Internal audits by nature tend to be nonobjective and consequently may not be as rigorous.
    </li>
   </ul>
</ul>

### External Audit

An external auditor works independently, either as a consultant or the employee of an auditing firm, to give an objective assessment of the security and controls structure of an organization. An external auditor can also be a government employee if a company works on government contracts. It is important to be careful when allowing an external auditor to become familiar with the inner workings of an organization. Make sure to examine the qualifications of the auditor and allow the auditor sufficient time to learn about your organization. An external audit:

<ul>
   <li>
    Is a very formal and structured process
   </li>
   <li>
    Strictly adheres to compliance obligations
   </li>
   <ul>
    <li>
     It is important to fully understand exactly what the purview of the audit is and require the auditor to follow
          it.
    </li>
    <li>
     You should have a contact and communication strategy in place prior to the audit to help to keep the auditor from job
          creep.
    </li>
   </ul>
</ul>

### IT Security Audits

An IT security audit typically focuses on the security posture of a company. The audit is comprised of the examination of network security, implementation of the principle of least privilege (PoLP), adherence to relevant standards as well as written business continuity and disaster recovery plans. It normally includes physical security, as well. Two components of an IT security audit are:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Component
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Risk evaluation or assessment
    </td>
    <td>
     The risk assessment includes evaluation of:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Defense in depth.
      </li>
      <li>
       Proper governance policies.
      </li>
      <li>
       Current redundancy plans.
      </li>
      <li>
       Proper use of corporate technology resources.
      </li>
      <li>
       Company and IT security strategies, policies and procedures.
      </li>
      <li>
       IT related fraud.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     User access and rights review
    </td>
    <td>
     Privilege auditing examines:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Use of roles and other security groups to grant access and privileges to network users.
      </li>
      <li>
       Implementation of PoLP.
      </li>
      <li>
       Implementation of policies that prevent privilege creep.
      </li>
      <li>
       Documentation of security violations and incident response.
      </li>
      <li>
       Review of user activity logs to identify compromised accounts, evaluate actions, and replicate incidents.
      </li>
      <li>
       Use of escalation auditing to verify the appropriate use of accounts and privileges. For example, administrators
          should be required to use normal user accounts for most activities. Administrators might circumvent these protections by
          granting additional privileges to their normal user accounts.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Financial Audits

This table shows two important financial audits that you will likely face. The first is a Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) compliance review. SOX is a federal law. The second is a Personal Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS) audit. PCI DSS is a compliance requirement established by the major credit card issuers.

<table>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     SOX
    </td>
    <td>
     A Sarbanes-Oxley audit is a government audit by the SEC that relates to internal controls and
        focuses on IT security, access controls, data backup, change management, and physical security.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     PCI DSS
    </td>
    <td>
     Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard compliance audits relate to the use of credit cards.
        These audits are regulated and enforced by the major credit card companies. Failing PCI audits can result in heavy fines or
        losing the ability to accept credit cards as a method of payment. These audits focus on how credit card data is used,
        stored or not stored, and the physical security surrounding employees who receive credit card payments.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

> The above listed audit examples are not all inclusive but an introduction into the world of network security and data auditing. Contracts and SLAs are a determining factor in frequency and type of audits required.

## 14.1.3 Auditing the Windows Security Log

### Windows Security Log Audit 00:00-00:13

In this demonstration, we'll show you how to audit the Windows Security log. You'll be able to audit for security-related events on one host or on your entire Windows network.

### Audit Methods 00:13-00:42

There are two ways you can audit.

You can audit individual workstations using the local security policy. This method is very time intensive and makes it difficult to aggregate information if you have more than a few hosts to audit.

The other way is to use Group Policy. We'll choose Group Policy because it's linked to the entire Windows domain. This is the method we'll demonstrate. It's a much better solution. When a domain user logs in at a workstation, the audit settings for the Windows Security log will be applied to that workstation.

Let's open Group Policy Management.

### Group Policy Management 00:42-02:27

This is our default domain. This is our Default Domain policy.

We'll right-click. Go to Edit. Now we have a Group Policy Management Editor. Expand this a little bit.

We'll go to Computer Configuration, Policies, Windows Settings, Security Settings, Local Policies, Audit Policy.

Notice here, on the right pane, there are audit policies. We have nine of them here.

For example, if we go to Audit Account Management, we can specify auditing the management of user and group accounts. We can audit directory service access and many other things.

Object Access allows us to audit access to files, folders, printers, registry keys, and so on.

We also have Audit Policy Change. This allows us to audit any changes made to the local policies, including changes made to user rights or security options.

We have Audit Privilege Use. This option allows you to audit the use of user rights or privileges.

There is also Audit Process Tracking. That's typically used only by application developers. It's designed to keep track of detailed program information for events, such as program activation, process, exit, handle duplication, and so on. It determines problems with source code. It generates a tremendous amount of overhead, however, use this only when necessary.

Last on the list is Audit System Events. If a system event occurs, such as a server reboot, then it will log that event along with date and time. This can be very useful.

For example, if your server is being rebooted every day at 3:00 am, you want to know who is doing that and why. By auditing that system event, you can be alerted when it's occurring and take steps to find out what's going on.

### Account Logon and Audit Logon Events 02:27-05:06

Some of the more useful audits from a security standpoint are Audit Account Logon and Audit Logon Events. When we look at Audit Logon Events, you can see that, by default, these policies are not defined. Let's define some Audit Logon Event policy settings.

Let's open this up. There are two things we can audit for: success and for failure. Let's define these. As a security administrator, you have to decide what you want to see.

Do you want to see failed logon attempts or do you want to see successful ones? There are circumstances when both can be useful.

For example, if you think someone's trying to break into your system, you can audit failed logon attempts. That will tell you if someone is trying to guess a password repeatedly and, in so doing, is generating failed logon events.

However, there are many situations when you may want to audit success as well. You can use this in situations when you suspect that an unauthorized user has compromised the system and is successfully logging in. We can audit to see when where the unauthorized user is logging in from.

For our purposes, we want to audit logon failure events. We'll select Failure and unselect Success. Then, click OK.

Let's close the Group Policy Management Editor. By default, it's not currently enforced, as you can see No under enforced.

To enforce it, we right-click, select Enforced, and now we see the lock here. That means it's currently enforced. Also, see here it's labeled Yes.

The Default Domain policy is linked to the domain. Currently, it's enforced on the domain. At this point, we need to generate some failed logon attempts. Let's analyze those in an Event Viewer.

We've restarted this machine to update the Group Policy settings that we changed.

One thing you can do, if you don't want to reboot your machine, you can go into the Search box down here and type —˜GPupdate' and press Enter. This runs an update of Group Policy.

But before logging back in, we created some bad password attempts. Let's take a look.

Let's go to Event Viewer, right-click, and run it is administrator. Let's make this big. Let's expand Windows logs. Let's go to Security.

Because we attempted to log into this account with the wrong password a few times, we can see a couple of audit failures have been created.

If we go to this one, we can open the event and see there's a few failed logons. We can go down and see the account name that tried to logon with a bad password.

Our policy in the Default Domain caused the failure to be written to the security log file. You can see that the test user tried to login and failed several times.

If we use the Up and Down keys, we can scroll through the attempts and view the logs that were created. Let's close this window.

### Granular Auditing 05:06-07:44

Before we end this demonstration, we want to look at one more thing.

Under Group Policy Management, let's go to the Default Domain, Edit, Group Policy Management Editor. Now we'll go to Computer Configuration, Windows settings.

Let's expand this a little bit. Now, we'll go to Security Settings, Local Policies, Audit Policies.

The nine basic policies we looked at earlier allow you to configure audit policy settings for broad sets of behaviors such as object access, policy change, privilege use, and so on.

Some policy settings generate more audit events than others. For auditing to be valuable, a security administrator usually has to review the events that are generated.

Enabling policies without reviewing the events they create is helpful only if you do have a security breach. In that case, you can review the logs to determine what happened. That's a reactive approach.

You can proactively analyze your security logs to help prevent a breach. A key issue is the amount of data generated in the logs.

Starting with Server 2009 R2, as well with Windows 7, and up to Windows 10, you can audit more granular aspects of the client systems behavior. This is useful because it allows you to target relevant information.

For example, we have a policy setting for auditing logon events. We set up logon events, so let's open it. We can deselect Define these policy settings. Check the box and click OK.

Then, if we go back to Security Settings, Advanced Audit Policy Configuration, Audit Policies, we can choose more granular control in auditing logon or logoff events. We can audit logon, logoff, and account logout.

Let's look at an example. Let's double-click Account Logon. We can audit the success or failure of the logon event. Let's select failure. Click OK.

With the Audit Logon event settings we used earlier, a single logon failure event generates many messages in the Windows Security Log. Choosing this option, we can audit only failed logons. This provides us with more targeted data.

We can also audit logoffs or lock out due to multiple failed password attempts. We cannot do this with the earlier audit policies that we were setting.

For example, we might want to audit whenever an account lockout event occurs. With this new policy, we can log failed logons and accounts that get locked out. These advanced audit policies significantly reduce the amount of information we have to analyze.

### Summary 07:44-08:10

That's it for this demo. In this demonstration, we talked about setting up auditing. We first looked at basic auditing settings.

We configured logon auditing. We generated failed logon events. We looked at those events in Event Viewer. Then, we turned our attention to the Advanced Audit Policy Configuration where we can set policies to more granularly audit security events on the system.

## 14.1.5 Auditing Device Logs

### Auditing Device Logs 00:00-00:23

In this demo, we'll discuss auditing device logs. and we'll use our Cisco managed switch as an example. Now, auditing device logs requires two things: First, we must enable logging so that we have log events that are being captured on the device. And second, we take the time to review or audit the logs to see what's happening. Let's see how this is done.

### Log Settings 00:23-00:51

First, let's enable logging by clicking Administration, System Log, then Log Settings. You'll see that logging is currently enabled. This particular device has three types of logging. You can save log events in RAM, the random-access memory which will be lost after the system reboots. You can also save log events in flash memory which means that they'll be stored after the system reboots. And, finally, you can also aggregate, or compile, your logs and send them to a SYS log server.

### Event Aggregation 00:51-01:25

To enable event aggregation, we enable the Syslog aggregator by checking the box and entering a time in seconds for Max Aggregation Time. Will enter 300 here, which will mean 5 minutes.

If you have a set of events that happen repeatedly—"for example, the same event keeps happening every five seconds—"what will happen is the aggregator will say this event happened 15 times. Instead of seeing a separate entry for each similar event, you'll see the event happened and the number of times it happened within that aggregation period. We'll click apply to enable logging with aggregation.

### Remote Log Servers 01:25-01:42

You can add a remote log server, so you can view your logs from a central location. We'll click add and here you can specify the server by IP address or name, the UDP port, and have your logs sent to a certain facility. Let's click Close and go back to Log Settings.

### RAM Memory Logging 01:42-02:52

As you'll notice there are several levels of logging on this device starting with Emergency. Let's talk about what each of these mean.

The Emergency level of severity means the system is not usable. An alert means that there's some sort of action that's needed. An event with critical severity means that the system is in a critical condition. An error means that there's an error in the system. Warning means that a system warning has occurred and a notice means that the system is functioning properly, but it just wants to let you know that something has happened. The informational level log is about device information. And then if you're having an issue with the device, you can log detailed debugging information about a particular event. As you'll notice we don't have debug information selected. But in our RAM logging , we're logging all of the other device events. Selecting a severity level causes all of those events higher to be selected as well. For example, we'll choose informational, and notice all the more critical events above it are selected, too.

We can also specify the Originator Identifier in our log messages by choosing None, or by hostname, IP address, or a description of your choice.

### Flash Memory Logging 02:52-03:08

For flash memory logging which will be available after a system reboot, we're logging only a few top severity levels. These events are aggregating in our error log every 300 seconds, and then sent off to our defined SYS log server. Now let's take a look at some of the events in the event log.

### View Log 03:08-03:40

With logging now setup and enabled, we're ready to view the logs. To see the logs, click on Status and Statistics, View Log, and then we can review both the RAM and Flash log entries. Notice there are various events by chronological order, newest on top. On this device, we see mostly notices and informational events, with an occasional warning. Keep an eye out for important messages like failed login attempts, logins from unauthorized workstations, device restarts, down links, and much more.

### Summary 03:40-03:57

That's a quick summary of device log auditing. Remember to first enable logging so your device will generate events in the logs, then you need to take the time to periodically review the logs to see if there is important information there.
