---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 14.3 Sensitive Data and Privacy
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     What is the purpose of classifying data?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is the difference between PII and PHI?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to know data destruction types?
    </li>
    <li>
     How are privacy enhancing technologies used to protect PII?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
   <li>
    Shred files.
   </li>
   <li>
    Wipe hard drives.
   </li>
</ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Data types
    </td>
    <td>
     Data types are the classifications of data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Public
    </td>
    <td>
     Information readily available to the public via websites, publications, etc.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Private
    </td>
    <td>
     Data meant for limited distribution.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Sensitive
    </td>
    <td>
     Data intended for internal use; unauthorized access could cause damage.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Critical
    </td>
    <td>
     Data that is personally identifiable. Critical data is normally covered by compliance, laws, or regulations.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Proprietary
    </td>
    <td>
     Information that is unique and differentiates a company from its competitors.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Personally identifiable information (PII)
    </td>
    <td>
     Information that identifies an individual. Examples of PII include social security number, credit card numbers, financial
        account information, etc.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data minimization
    </td>
    <td>
     A process that specifies only data that is absolutely necessary for intended purpose is collected.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data masking
    </td>
    <td>
     A form of obfuscation where data is hidden through modified content. This makes the data unreadable by
        unauthorized persons.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Tokenization
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of turning meaningful data into a string of unrelated characters that has no value and is
        not reversible by unauthorized persons.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Anonymization
    </td>
    <td>
     Removal of PII within data sets so that viewing the data will not identify an individual.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Pseudo-anonymization
    </td>
    <td>
     Process of replacing PII with simulated identifiers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data owners
    </td>
    <td>
     A component of data governance. Usually refers to a senior stakeholder who is responsible for one or
        more datasets.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data controller
    </td>
    <td>
     An entity (person or company) who decides the purpose and procedure for processing personal data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data processor
    </td>
    <td>
     A person who works for the data controller in the daily processing of personal data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data custodian/steward
    </td>
    <td>
     The person who manages data stored on servers, backups, etc.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data privacy officer (DPO)
    </td>
    <td>
     A senior level employee who is in charge of data governance. General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
        requires a DPO for larger companies.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Information life cycle
    </td>
    <td>
     The entire life of data from its collection or creation until its disposal.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Impact assessment
    </td>
    <td>
     A process of examining the effect data processes have on personal data. It also considers the risk
        level of the process.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Degaussing
    </td>
    <td>
     A process that uses a machine with strong magnets to destroy data on a hard drive by changing the
        polarity of the particles.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Pulverizing
    </td>
    <td>
     This process completely destroys the physical hard drive.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Pulping
    </td>
    <td>
     A method of destroying paper documents by turning the paper into a liquid slurry. The method is not
        cost effective compared with shredding.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     5.5. Explain privacy and sensitive data concepts in relation to security.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Organizational consequences of privacy breaches
       <ul>
        <li>
         Reputation damage
        </li>
        <li>
         Identity theft
        </li>
        <li>
         Fines
        </li>
        <li>
         IP theft
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Notifications of breaches
       <ul>
        <li>
         Escalation
        </li>
        <li>
         Public notifications and disclosures
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Data types
       <ul>
        <li>
         Classifications
         <ul>
          <li>
           Public
          </li>
          <li>
           Private
          </li>
          <li>
           Sensitive
          </li>
          <li>
           Confidential
          </li>
          <li>
           Critical
          </li>
          <li>
           Proprietary
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Personally identifiable information (PII)
        </li>
        <li>
         Health information
        </li>
        <li>
         Financial information
        </li>
        <li>
         Government data
        </li>
        <li>
         Customer data
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Privacy enhancing technologies
       <ul>
        <li>
         Data minimization
        </li>
        <li>
         Data masking
        </li>
        <li>
         Tokenization
        </li>
        <li>
         Anonymization
        </li>
        <li>
         Pseudo-anonymization
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 14.3.1 Consequences of Breaches

### Consequences of Data Breach 00:00-00:25

All too frequently, we read about a data breach. Large companies with security budgets in the millions of dollars are not exempt. Most of us have, at onetime or another, been notified that our information has been compromised. It could be bank accounts, credit cards, government records, or even health records. All these data breaches come with serious consequences. Let's talk about what they are.

### Reputation Damage 00:25-01:02

A company's reputation determines if people will invest, if consumers will buy, and if foreign governments will allow a company to do business internationally. A company lives or dies by its revenues and investments.

A breach that exposes private client data directly affects the way consumers and investors spend money. A data breach can cause stock prices to fall. Falling stock prices lead to sell offs and can permanently damage a company.

When trust is broken and consumer confidence is damaged, revenues drop because consumers stop using the company. Also, the loss of government contracts because of breach can prove fatal for a company.

### Identity Theft 01:02-01:33

Twenty years ago, the term identity theft didn't have any real meaning to the everyday person. Fast forward to today, and it is difficult to find someone who hasn't experienced identity theft on some level. When a breach occurs and personal information is stolen, the affected person is forced to do hours, days, and even weeks of work to correct someone else's mistake. The effects of identity theft can last years and cause fear and paranoia among those affected. Lives have been turned upside down leaving victims frustrated because it is almost impossible to catch the perpetrator.

### Fines 01:33-03:14

A data breach can also be financially costly. With the introduction of GDPR and the California Consumer Privacy Act the number of companies that can be fined has grown significantly. In the United States, HIPAA has always carried fines for companies found in non-compliance. Companies that profit from the use of consumer personal information can also have heavy fines levied by the Federal Trade Commission and possibly the Security and Exchange Commission.

To give you an idea of the magnitude of these fines, in 2019 three data breaches at three separate companies cost the companies over 1 billion dollars. It is estimated that fines for a single data breach now averages $6.45 million dollars.

Intellectual Property is the lifeblood of companies. When IP is stolen ,companies lose competitive advantage.

The internet has made the world smaller. Companies are now competing with others from around the globe. IP stolen through a data breach is often sold to competing companies.

Many of the overseas companies are not subject to laws in the United States. This makes it difficult to enforce IP laws. The reverse engineering or the direct copy of IP gives thieves an undeserved revenue source. IP theft also floods the market with counterfeit goods.

Let's look at an IP theft scenario. The XYZ company has worked tirelessly on a new product that's cutting-edge. As the company is going into production, they experience a data breach. They are not sure what data may have been lost. A few months later, counterfeit versions of their cutting-edge product start flooding the market. They now discover that their intellectual property was stolen during the breach. The fakes are selling for less money and destroying XYZ's profits.

### Escalation 03:14-04:13

Escalation can be separated into two categories, internal escalation and external escalation. Internal escalation is part of a company's incident response plan. This usually means a tiered approach to informing management of a breach. As a breach is investigated, the findings and severity will determine how far the escalation will go. The external escalation involves experts brought in from the outside to investigate, provide legal counsel, or even prosecute, which involves law enforcement. The key is to know when a situation has surpassed your abilities to resolve it.

### Summary 04:13-04:39

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we showed you how data breaches can have serious consequences including loss of trust, fines, and theft of intellectual property. Fines are averaging $6.45 million per event. All 50 states have laws outlining the data breach notification requirements. We also looked at a scenario of IP theft and its consequences.

## 14.3.2 Consequences of Breaches Facts

Network and data breaches can have serious consequences. Some of them can be far reaching and potentially permanent.

This lesson covers the topic of the consequences of breaches:

### Consequences of Breaches

Breaches affect all companies. This includes even large companies with security budgets in the millions of dollars. Most of us have, at one time or another, been notified that our information has been compromised. It could be bank accounts, credit cards, government records, or even health records. All these data breaches come with serious consequences.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Category
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Reputation damage
    </td>
    <td>
     A company’s reputation determines if people invest, if consumers buy 
		a product or service, or if foreign governments even allow a certain company to do business 
		in their jurisdiction. A company lives or dies by its revenues and 
		investments, so a breach that exposes client data directly affects the way consumers and investors spend 
		their money. A data breach can cause stock prices to fall, and falling stock prices lead to sell-offs and 
		permanent damage.
     <br>
     <br>
     Consumer confidence is damaged and trust broken when a breach occurs. Revenue drops because consumers stop using the company. This doesn’t include any government contracts a company may have, 
		the loss of which can prove fatal.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Identity theft
    </td>
    <td>
     Twenty years ago this term didn’t have any real meaning to the everyday person. Fast forward to today and it is difficult to find someone who hasn’t experienced identity theft on some level. When a breach occurs and personal information is stolen, the affected person is forced to do hours of work to correct someone else’s mistake.
     <br>
     <br>
     The 
		effects of identity theft can last for years and cause fear and paranoia among the 
		victims. Lives have been turned upside down, leaving victims frustrated because it is almost impossible to catch the perpetrator.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Fines
    </td>
    <td>
     A data breach can also be financially costly. Now, with the introduction of GDPR and the California Consumer Privacy Act, 
		the number of companies that can be fined has grown significantly. In the United States, HIPAA has always carried fines for companies found in non-compliance.
     <br>
     <br>
     Companies that profit from the use of personal information can also have heavy fines levied 
		against them by the Federal Trade Commission and possibly the Security and Exchange Commission. To give you an idea of the magnitude of these fines, three data breaches at three separate companies cost the companies over 
		one billion dollars in 2019. 
	It is estimated that a single data breach now averages $6.45 million dollars.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     IP theft
    </td>
    <td>
     Intellectual property (IP) is the lifeblood of companies. When their IP is stolen, they lose competitive advantage. The internet has made the world smaller, 
		and companies are now competing with others from around the globe.
     <br>
     <br>
     When IP is stolen through a data breach, it is 
		often sold to competing companies. Many of the companies are overseas and not subject to laws in the United States, 
		making them difficult to prosecute. This allows the reverse engineering or direct copy of IP and gives the thieves an undeserved revenue source. This also floods the market with counterfeit goods.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Notifications
    </td>
    <td>
     Each of the 50 states now have laws on breach notifications. Most of the laws have common elements. 
		For example, a company must immediately disclose a breach to its customers in writing.
     <br>
     <br>
     There are, however, exceptions to this. If a company determines, after a good-faith investigation, that the breach is unlikely to lead to the misuse of personal information, notification is not required. 
	Most companies do notify the public when a breach occurs to prevent loss of public trust.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Escalation
    </td>
    <td>
     Escalation can be separated into two categories, which 
		are internal escalation and external escalation. Internal escalation is part of a company’s incident-response plan. This usually means a tiered approach to informing management of a breach. As a breach is investigated, the findings and severity determine how far the escalation goes.
     <br>
     <br>
     External escalation is when experts need to be brought in from the outside to investigate, provide legal counsel, or even enforce 
		laws. The key is to know when a situation has surpassed your ability to resolve it.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 14.3.3 Information Classification

### Information Classification 00:00-00:16

In this video, we're going to talk about information classification. There are several types of data, and data needs to be classified and secured. First, let's go over general classifications of data.

### Classifications of Data 00:16-00:36

All data falls into one of five categories. Public data is available to anyone. Private data has limited distribution. Sensitive data is for internal use. Critical data is covered by laws and compliance regulations. Proprietary data is exclusive to a particular entity. Let's look at each of these in detail.

### Public Data 00:36-00:51

The first information classification is Public. This classification allows anyone to have a copy of the information. Examples include a public website that everyone can access, company brochures, and marketing material. This data exists to be released.

### Private Data 00:51-01:10

Private data is not for general release to the public. It includes internal email addresses, company meeting notes, company presentations, and customer lists. This is information you don't want released to the public, but if it were accidentally released, damage to your organization would be light to moderate.

### Sensitive Data 01:10-01:29

Sensitive data is information that, if exposed, could cause significant damage to an organization. Sensitive data is restricted even within the company that's responsible for it. It may include strategic information, customer lists, personally identifiable information (PII), and company strategies.

### Critical Data 01:29-01:49

Critical data includes personally identifiable information, credit card data, health records, and other information covered under compliance regulations. These include The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and The California Consumer Protection Act. The disclosure of critical data will cause severe harm and financial penalties.

### Proprietary Data 01:49-02:19

Proprietary information includes information that's unique and differentiates a company from its competitors. Examples are Google's search algorithm, the recipe for Coca-Cola, or patents granted for inventions and processes. The release of this information would cause serious damage, maybe even irreparable damage.

Now let's talk about very specific kinds of data that need to be classified by a company. This data is covered by laws, government regulations, and compliance acts.

### Data Types 02:19-03:16

The first is classified data.

Personal Identifiable Information includes almost any data that can be used to identify a person: their name, addresses, email, phone number, or even a photograph.

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) has many facets, but the one that concerns you most as a security administrator is their policy on Electronic Health Information, or eHI. This classification includes data related to an individual's health and information collected by doctors, health clinics, health insurance companies, and employers. It must be secured in all usage states– at rest, in use, or in motion. The exposure, loss, or breach of this data incures significant fines from the U.S. government.

Financial data is covered by a few laws and compliance bodies. It includes consumer credit card information, bank account numbers, and corporate financial requirements.

### Military and Government Data 03:16-03:59

There are also government/military classification levels. The public can view Unclassified information. The next classification is Sensitive, but Unclassified. For this classification, the government or military would prefer the information not be available to the public, but it is unclassified. Disclosure could cause harm, but the harm would be minimal.

The next level is Confidential. It allows restricted information release under the Freedom of Information Act. The level above that is Secret, and it includes troop movements, deployments, and overall capabilities. The highest classification is Top Secret. Release of Top-Secret information can pose a grave threat to the country and national security.

### Summary 03:59-04:25

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we covered the different data classifications and examples of data in each classification: public, private, sensitive, and critical.

Then we looked at specific types of data, including PII, ePHI, credit cards, and unclassified, confidential, secret, and top-secret.

## 14.3.4 Information Classification Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Classifications of data
   </li>
   <li>
    Personally identifiable information (PII)
   </li>
   <li>
    Government data
   </li>
</ul>

### Classifications of Data

Data is the lifeblood of the internet and commerce. Because of this, it is critical that data be categorized to make its protection easier. All data is not equal and some requires more care and security than others. They types of data include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Private data (not for general release to the public)
   </li>
   <li>
    Sensitive data (restricted even within the company that is responsible for it)
   </li>
   <li>
    Proprietary data (includes information that is unique and differentiates a company from its competitors)
   </li>
</ul>

### PII Data

Personally identifiable information (PII) is information that, is data that can identify an individual. The following PII types are important to know about and protect.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     PII Types
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definitions
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Government-issued numbers (SSNs, etc.)
    </td>
    <td>
     These numbers identify individuals for government purposes.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Names, addresses, and phone numbers
    </td>
    <td>
     Although these items are readily available, companies 
		still need to protect them since they tie to other more important 
		information.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Financial information
    </td>
    <td>
     This includes bank account numbers, credit card numbers, and other finance-related information.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Government Data

Government data classifications are used across the gamut of government agencies. This includes the six branches of the military: Army, Navy, Marines, Coast Guard, Space Force, and Air Force. The classifications correspond to security-clearance levels used for military members, government officials, and civilian contractors. The approval process can take between 4 to 18 months depending on the level of clearance. Clearance levels allow a person to view documents commensurate with their clearance level and below so long as their job requires the viewing of such documents.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Federal Government Data Classification
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Explanation
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Unclassified
    </td>
    <td>
     Data available for public use. No clearance needed.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Sensitive
    </td>
    <td>
     Sensitive data is unclassified, but the government would prefer that the data not be public.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Confidential
    </td>
    <td>
     Confidential data is information with limited distribution. No clearance is required.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Secret
    </td>
    <td>
     The fist data classification that requires a security clearance.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Top Secret
    </td>
    <td>
     The highest level of data classification. Only those with Top Secret clearance can view the documents
        on a need-to-know basis.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Top Secret Compartmentalized
    </td>
    <td>
     This data is not anymore secret than Top Secret but has very specific and limited distribution.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### 14.3.5 Privacy and Responsibility of Data

### Privacy and Responsibility of Data 00:00-01:20

We're going to spend a few minutes reviewing some of the laws that have been enacted to protect the privacy of electronic data.

The United States has passed a significant number of laws regarding information security, especially the privacy of electronic data. Prior to the year 2000, there weren't many laws that addressed this particular area of information security. However, due to a rash of break-ins, exploits, and another abuses, many states and the federal government enacted laws to protect the privacy of electronic data.

A key thing to remember is that you need to be very familiar with the requirements of the laws that apply to your organization. To protect your organization and to protect yourself, you need to be aware of how these laws apply to your organization.

This lesson addresses some of the higher profile data privacy laws, but it doesn't identify all the laws that apply to your organization, nor does it provide minute details of each law that it does cover. This lesson provides only a simple, high-level overview of these laws. You are responsible to research whether these laws apply to your organization, and if so, how. You are also responsible to be aware of other federal, state, and even local laws that effect your organization.

### HIPAA 01:20-01:52

Let's begin with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 called HIPAA. HIPAA specifies that all organizations having anything to do with healthcare must protect the health information that they maintain.

These organizations must implement policies and procedures to protect this information, regardless of the storage medium, such as paper in a filing cabinet or electronic digital format. HIPAA also establishes national standards for transferring electronic healthcare information.

### Sarbanes-Oxley Act 01:52-02:35

The next act you need to be familiar with is the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, sometimes referred to as Sarbox, is the result of a flood of corporate fraud in the late 1990s and the early 2000s. Sarbox requires publically traded companies to adhere to very stringent reporting requirements and implement strong controls on electronic financial reporting systems.

A key point in Sarbox is that organizations have to keep information for a certain time. This especially relates to email. In fact, Sarbox created an entire industry of email archiving companies so that organizations can comply with its regulations.

### Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 02:35-04:34

Next, we need to look at the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which we refer to as GLBA. GLBA is designed to protect private data much like HIPAA does; however, GLBA applies to private information held at financial institutions.

There are two main functions of GLBA. First, it requires all banks and any other financial institutions to alert their customers as to that organization's privacy policies. If you've received a little pamphlet from your financial institution that contained that institution's privacy statement, that pamphlet was in response to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.

In addition, all personally identifiable financial information (PII) within a financial institution—either electronic or paper formats—has to be protected. Essentially this act specifies that a policy must be in place to protect private information from foreseeable threats and to maintain data integrity. In order to implement this, GLBA requires financial institutions to put in place three main components.

The first one is the Financial Privacy Rule. The second one is the Safeguards Rule. And the third one is called Pretexting Protection. Essentially, the Financial Privacy Rule requires all financial institutions to provide each customer with the privacy notice that we talked about earlier. It must be provided at the time the relationship is established. That is, when you go in to open a new banking account. It also has to be provided every year thereafter.

The Safeguards Rule requires financial institutions to develop a written information security plan, which describes in detail how the company plans to protect clients' personal information. Finally, Pretexting Protection encourages financial institutions to train their staff how to recognize social engineering exploits, which they call pretexting. The reason is that social engineering exploits use some type of pretext.

### Patriot Act 04:34-04:58

You should also be familiar with the Patriot Act of 2001. This act enables law enforcement agencies to detect and suppress terrorism by giving law enforcement the authority to request information from organizations. All organizations, public or private, must provide the requested information to the appropriate law enforcement agencies under the authority of a valid court order or a subpoena.

### California Database Security Breach Act 04:58-05:46

The next law you need to be familiar with is the California Database Security Breach Act of 2003. This law specifies that any agency, person, government entity, or company that does business in the state of California must inform California residents within 48 hours if a database breach or other security breach occurs in which personal information has been stolen or is believed to have been stolen.

Most other states have similar state laws modeled on the California Database Security Breach Act of 2003, making it a significant act. Therefore, use your favorite search engine to search for similar acts in the states in which you do business. If you do business in those states and your organization has a breach of personal information, then you are under a regulatory compliance requirement to inform anyone who may be affected.

### COPPA 05:46-06:22

Next, let's look at the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, which is referred to as COPPA.

COPPA requires organizations that provide online services designed for kids below the age of 13—such as websites and gaming sites—to obtain parental consent prior to collecting a child's personal information and using it, such as displaying it on the website, selling it to a marketing company, and so on.

In addition, COPPA also specifies that such online services cannot require kids to provide more information than what they determine as reasonable in order to participate.

### GDPR 06:22-07:01

The General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, is a data compliance regulation that started in 2018. GDPR provides sweeping changes to the way customer data is treated in the European Union. The regulation not only applies to countries that are part of the EU, but it also applies to any company that has customers that reside in the EU itself. The regulation requires companies to be prepared to tell costumers what data they have, where they got it, who they've given it to, and how it's being used. It also gives customers the right to be forgotten in some cases. Failure to adhere to the regulations can be costly.

### California Consumer Privacy Act 07:01-07:39

The last one we'll look at is the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, was passed in 2020 and was one of the first data privacy acts in the United States. The act applies to California state residents, but companies that do business in the state and meet other benchmarks must also comply. The consumers' rights include the right to know what data is collected and whether their data was sold and to whom. The consumer is also allowed to access their own data and able to deny the sale of it. Under certain circumstances, they're allowed to have data deleted and cannot be discriminated against for doing so.

### Summary 07:39-08:14

That's it for this video. This is not an all-inclusive list of laws and acts regarding electronic data privacy with which you need to be familiar. GDPR and CCPA are both relatively new, so make sure you research laws that apply to your organization beyond just these two. It's also probably a good idea to use the services of a lawyer who's familiar with this field just to make sure that your organization stays in compliance. Please note again that non-compliance to these laws and regulations can be very costly.

## 14.3.6 Privacy and Responsibility of Data

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Privacy-enhancing technologies
   </li>
   <li>
    Data management
   </li>
   <li>
    Roles and responsibilities
   </li>
</ul>

### Privacy-Enhancing Technologies

Classifying data is a good first step, but the data still needs to be protected from unauthorized access. This includes applications and techniques that make data impossible to use if it is breached.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Technology
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td>
    Information life cycle
   </td>
   <td>
    Refers to the entire life of data from its collection or creation until its disposal.
   </td>
   </tr><tr>
    <td>
     Impact assessment
    </td>
    <td>
     Is a process of examining the effect data processes have on personal data. It also considers the risk level of the process.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data minimization
    </td>
    <td>
     A procedure where only data that is absolutely necessary for 
		the intended purpose is collected.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data masking
    </td>
    <td>
     Is a form of obfuscation where data is hidden through 
		modified content. This makes the data unreadable to unauthorized persons.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Tokenization
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of turning meaningful data into a string of unrelated characters that has no value and is not reversible by unauthorized persons.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Anonymization
    </td>
    <td>
     Removal of PII within data sets so that viewing the data will not identify an individual.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Pseudo-anonymization
    </td>
    <td>
     Process of replacing PII with simulated identifiers.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

Roles within data privacy are becoming more defined as new privacy regulations are passed. These roles help a company divide up the responsibilities associated with data protection.

### Data Management

Below are management techniques that address the issues of data privacy. Most of these have been present for a considerable amount of time but have evolved as data protection has become a main concern of the populace.

<ul>
   <li>
    Information life cycle
   </li>
   <li>
    Impact assessment
   </li>
   <li>
    Terms of agreement
   </li>
   <li>
    Privacy notice
   </li>
   <ul>
    <li>
     Refers to the entire life of data from collection to disposal
    </li>
    <li>
     Process of examining the effect data processes have on personal data
    </li>
    <li>
     Details how personal data is to be used
    </li>
   </ul>
</ul>

### Roles and Responsibilities

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Role
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Data owners
    </td>
    <td>
     A component of data governance. Usually refers to a senior stakeholder that is responsible for a dataset(s).
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data controller
    </td>
    <td>
     An entity (person or company) that decides the purpose and procedure for processing personal data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data processor
    </td>
    <td>
     A person that works for a data controller in the daily processing of personal data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data custodian/steward
    </td>
    <td>
     Manages the actual data stored on servers, backups, etc.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data privacy officer (DPO)
    </td>
    <td>
     A senior-level employee who is in charge of data governance. GDPR requires one for larger companies.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 14.3.7 Data Destruction

### Data Destruction 00:00-00:51

When you dispose of a computer, selling used hardware, or erasing important information, it's crucial to destroy all of the data on a device. It's not enough to delete the data. Reformatting the hard drive is not even sufficient. If other people can access your computer, they can use data remanence, the residual representation of erased data, to recover information. You must damage the hardware so badly that the remanence is gone.

And don't paper documents. Even in our digital world, a lot of sensitive information is available in print, and you must destroy that information, too. If someone obtains your data, it might be used to crack passwords, sell identification information, or steal trade secrets. That's why it's essential to be familiar with the tools, techniques, and government laws that apply to data destruction.

### Destruction Methods 00:51-01:28

There are wrong ways to destroy data—"and then there is the right way. You must use specialized tools to destroy data remanence, so information is impossible to retrieve. Data destruction tools use one of three techniques.

Software programs write random code over and over on top of the original data so that anything that can be recovered from the hardware is just gibberish.

Hardware tools damage hard disk drives so severely that it is impossible to retrieve even pieces of data from the drive.

There are also techniques that destroy the ink on paper so that it's impossible to read.

### Data destruction and media sanitization 01:28-02:15

Let's look at sanitization programs first. Sanitization programs wipe data off your computer without damaging hardware. This is commonly called purging, wiping, or clearing. These techniques remove data from the hard disk and then write over it so many times that the data remanence is destroyed.

Media sanitization options do not destroy the hard disk for future use. There are many data sanitization software programs you can use to purge information, and some of them are even free. Each has pros and cons; carefully consider the media type you are purging, the level of data sensitivity, your budget, and other factors when you select a sanitization software.

The following options severely damage hardware storage so that the device can never be used again.

### Shredding 02:15-02:47

One technique is running a hard disk through a disk shredder, physically destroying the drive. Disk shredders are effective, but also relatively expensive.

Some organizations without a disk shredder will destroy a disk by hammering or drilling holes into the disk platters. Drilling and hammering are relatively inexpensive and fairly efficient. However, they are not as effective as a shredder.

Another option is hiring a company to destroy disks. Many companies that provide this service will also provide a certificate of destruction.

### Pulverizing 02:47-03:00

Pulverizing is like shredding, except that it uses a punch press or hammer system to crush a hard disk into a pile of metal confetti. Many companies that provide disk shredding also provide pulverizing.

### Degaussing 03:00-03:13

One really effective technique is degaussing. Degaussing purges the hard disk by exposing it to an incredibly high magnetic pulse that destroys all the data on the disk. It also ruins the motors inside the drive.

### Destroying Paper Documents 03:13-03:36

Remember how we mentioned that you also need to destroy paper documents that contain sensitive information? Most offices contain paper shredders, which shred documents into very small pieces—"as small as one-seventeenth of an inch—"which are then mixed with other trash. But these paper pieces still contain ink. There are two methods that destroy the ink on the paper: burning and pulping.

### Burning 03:36-04:09

Burning documents is a pretty simple process. Build a small fire somewhere legal and safe, then use metal tongs to burn your documents one by one or a few at a time. It's important to ensure that each document is turned into ash—"if sensitive information escapes the flames and flies away, it might fall into the wrong hands.

Burning blank papers with your critical documents makes things more confusing if someone tries to piece them back together. Be sure to sift through all the remains and make sure every bit of paper has turned to ash before you dispose of the burnt remnants.

### Pulping 04:09-04:53

Pulping is a way of removing all traces of ink from paper by using chemicals and then mashing the paper into pulp. Since these chemicals can ruin carpet and clothing, you should perform this process outside and use protective gloves.

First, you need to remove the documents from envelopes, unfold them, and place them in a large trash can filled with nine parts water and one part liquid bleach. Second, completely submerge and soak the documents in the solution for 24 hours. Next, use a broomstick or a heavy-duty mixer, such as a paint turbine mixer, to mash the paper into a pliable liquid pulp.

After that, spread the pulp out to dry in the sun. Lastly, place the dried pulp into garbage bags and throw it in the trash.

### Data sovereignty 04:53-05:24

Now that we have discussed ways to permanently dispose of information, let's switching gears to talk about the legal requirements of data destruction, starting with data sovereignty. Data sovereignty is the concept that information stored in binary digital form is subject to government laws and regulations. Data sovereignty laws are created to maintain privacy and prevent foreign countries from subpoenaing, or searching, another's data. Data sovereignty laws evolve rapidly as cloud services and other new storage options emerge.

### Data Disposal Laws 05:24-07:56

It's imperative that you stay current with data sovereignty laws because every business must comply with state and federal data destruction regulations. Data sovereignty laws protect citizens from identity theft, companies from security breaches, and clients from privacy issues. They specify when, how, and what data you are allowed to destroy. Requirements vary depending on location, so make sure you comply with the most up-to-date version of both state and federal regulations, and remember, they frequently change to keep up with the pace of technology. No matter where you live in the US, you will have to follow laws dictated by three government acts: HIPAA, FACTA, and FISMA.

HIPAA stands for Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. HIPAA protects medical records and personal health information. Companies that provide healthcare insurance handle HIPAA-protected information. And, of course, companies that provide health-related services also handle HIPAA-protected information.

FACTA, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, was created to protect against identity theft. It applies to the disposal of consumer reports and related information. FACTA includes credit reports, credit scores, employment history information, check writing history, insurance claims, residential or tenant history, and medical history. Every business handles FACTA-protected information, and every business must comply with FACTA laws.

FISMA, the Federal Information Security Management Act, protects government information. It is primarily concerned with proper data destruction and has detailed disposal requirements.

Regardless of which destruction method you use and what type of information you destroy, you need to carefully document each disposal process with a certificate of destruction, or COD. A COD is usually necessary to satisfy internal security reporting requirements as well as legal reporting requirements.

A COD should specify the device and the method and date of destruction. This document should also provide a chain of custody (each person who had possession of the data and the length of time they possessed the data).

If you destroy a storage device yourself, you should create your own COD. You can find COD templates on the internet. If you contact a service provider to destroy your devices, request that they provide a COD for each device they process. Most organizations, especially military and government agencies, retain CODs as a permanent record of each device's destruction.

### Data Retention Policies 07:56-08:17

Companies should have data retention policies and procedures for storing and destroying information. By law, organizations must retain certain information for specified time periods, and your business probably has additional records to keep and maintain. Always make absolutely certain that it is okay to destroy papers, data, and drives.

### Summary 08:17-08:44

Remember, proper data destruction is essential to securing information. Not only must you use specialized tools and techniques to damage the data beyond recovery, you must also comply with all necessary laws and company policies, including creating and maintaining a certificate of destruction. Following these guidelines will protect your organization from many security and legal problems.

## 14.3.8 Data Destruction Facts

Data and its various storage mediums are not meant to last forever. This creates a need to destroy the data and the medium it is stored on. The data type, terms of contract, laws, and regulations will all determine the appropriate destruction method.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Secure data destruction
- Third-party solutions

### Secure Data Destruction

One of the most important factors to consider when choosing a destruction method is serialization. This is when the destroyer provides a certificate list of serial numbers for all items destroyed. This may even be a condition of a signed contract. The following methods are common ways in which data is destroyed:

<ul>
   <li>
    Burning
    <ul>
     <li>
      Only recommended for paper and done commercially
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Pulping
    <ul>
     <li>
      Paper documents are turned into a liquid
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Pulverizing
    <ul>
     <li>
      Also known as shredding
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Degaussing
    <ul>
     <li>
      Changes the polarity of the particles inside a hard drive, rendering it unusable
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
</ul>

### Third-Party Solutions

The following are solutions beyond physical destruction of storage devices and data:

<ul>
   <li>
    Delete or reformat
    <ul>
     <li>
      Uses a physical connection to make data unreadable, but this also allows the medium to be reused.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Overwrite
    <ul>
     <li>
      This process consists of overwriting all data with 1s and 0s. More passes are required for highly sensitive data.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Wipe
    <ul>
     <li>
      Used when storage medium is reused within the same company. Not recommended for devices being discarded.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
</ul>

## 14.3.9 File Shredding and Hard Drive Wiping

### File Shredding and Hard Drive Wiping 00:00-02:27

In this demonstration, we're going to spend some time talking about how to wipe a hard disk drive. This is very important.

If you're going to surplus computer equipment and that happens in most organizations at least on an annual basis, then you need to ensure that any information that was on that hard disk drive while it was in use is removed prior to the system leaving your custody. This is absolutely critical.

Now a lot of folks have misconceptions about the process or how you go about doing this. Some think that repartitioning a hard drive prior to surplussing it will ensure that the information on the disk is wiped out. That's not true.

Deleting the disk partition simply removes the partition table from the drive. The data that was in that partition is still physically on that disk and can be easily recovered.

Likewise, a lot of folks think that if you reformat a partition that somehow that removes the data from the drive. Again, that's not true. Reformatting the drive simply writes a new partition table and the data that was on the drive prior to formatting is still there and once again can be easily recovered and taken off of that drive.

There are really only two effective ways to remove data from a hard disk drive. One is to physically destroy the drive and a lot of organizations that are security conscious will take the drives out and smash them or perform other destructive procedures on them to physically destroy the platters inside the hard disk drive such that they can't be read.

Another less destructive option is to use disk wiping software. Now wiping the disk overwrites the disk with a series of ones and zeros or representing other random characters in order to obscure any data that may exist on the drive.

It's important to note that overwriting it just one time or with one pass isn't enough. In fact, overwriting it with two passes isn't enough. The bare minimum that you should consider to obscure the data is about three times and even that isn't considered enough by most organizations.

The United States Department of Defense specifies you have to overwrite the disk seven times with a specific pattern of data in order to obliterate any data that used to be on the hard drive. That standard is known as the Department of Defense 5220.22-M standard.

In this demonstration, we're going to take a look at how you actually wipe data from a hard disk drive. We're going to presume that I have booted here on a system that we want to surplus.

### DBAN Utility 02:27-07:49

Now there's a number of tools that you could use in order to wipe say an entire disk but we're going to look at Darik's Boot and Nuke tool also known as DBAN, an acronym for the program.

As you go out and you find this tool, you'll see that you can download it as an ISO image, a quick Google search will lead you to the tool. This ISO image needs to be burned either to DVD or CD or made bootable on a USB drive in order to be used.

At this point I've already done that and I've booted up into the tool. You can see here there's a few options. We're going to just go ahead and enter interactive mode by pressing the enter key. As we do that, it's going to boot up, it's going to detect the different hard drives that I have, et cetera.

Let me explain a few parts of this program while it's doing them. The main selection that you will want to make is which method you would like to use in order to overwrite the data. There's several different methods available and you can choose from one of those.

Another part of it is to determine which algorithm you would like to use in order to create a pseudo-random number generation stream that is the sequence of random numbers and how those are actually generated.

You probably know that's a very difficult problem and as such the program allows you the option to select a few different methods.

Okay, here's our main interface here. You can see down at the bottom there's a few different keys that you can select in order to change the options. If we hit the P key, that's the pseudo-random number generator key, you can select from a couple of different options, either this first one or the second here.

We'll go ahead and just that select that first option that was the default. If we hit M to choose our method for overwriting, you can see we have several different options. Quick Erase simply writes a bunch of zeroes.

This next one is the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Technical Security Standard and so this actually will do eight different passes on the data. The DOD Short implements the 5220.22-M standard but only does three different passes, number one, two, and seven.

The full standard actually overwrites the data seven different times and it does so in a very specific way. First it writes any character and then its complement and then it uses a stream of pseudo-random numbers and writes a character from that stream.

Then it uses a single character and then any character, its complement, and finally, another piece of data from that pseudo-random number generator stream. It does these seven different processes to overwrite the data.

The Gutmann wipe does 35 passes in order to overwrite the data and this last option here, you can actually just say, "Hey, overwrite it any number of times using the pseudo-random number generator."

For instance, if we selected that using the space bar, then we can use the R key to specify the number of rounds, we could say, "Hey, use eight," and according to this program, eight is secure, four is medium level of security.

Let's go ahead and just say, "Do one round instead," and we're going to change our method to the DOD5220.22-M, the one that does seven different passes. Now you can see if you want you can also verify that the data was written correctly, we'll just choose the default for the last round.

Now that we're ready to go, we can simply select the hard drive that we actually want to perform that on, in this case, I just have one hard drive. You can see it's a very small hard drive.

This is just a test system to give you an idea but it's just one gig large and you'll see it, it'll take about a minute in order to perform the wipe. Of course, if you had a lot larger system, it's going to take longer.

Let's go ahead and press the F10 key and get started on it. You can see the statistics up here. You can see we've run for four seconds now and in a minute you'll see how much time is remaining.

Again, this hard drive is just one gig large, and it's going to take just over a minute to complete. Usually your hard drives are two terabytes and more and you can see that it would take quite a while in order to do the entire process on a larger drive. We're talking 18 hours, 24 hours, or even more.

We'll go ahead and let that run for just a second here and maybe we'll switch gears and talk about the next thing that I'll show you. A lot of times, this program works great for wiping entire disk drives but sometimes you have files within an existing system that you want to wipe out.

Instead of nuking the whole drive, you can actually just nuke a specific portion of that drive but we need to use a different program to do that. Once this process finishes, we'll go ahead and launch into and show you specific programs that you can use in order to nuke specific files. Okay, just a few more seconds here and we'll finish off.

You can see the throughput and some other stats there. We're just finishing up a Round Seven, and then we'll get the success screen for DBAN here. You can see that if we inserted a USB stick, we could have saved the log of how it actually flushed.

If you want to wipe an entire drive, consider this tool DBAN. You really need to be wiping your entire drive before you send your computers to surplus.

Here's a program that we can use in order to shred or get rid of files within an existing system. Of course, this isn't the only one. There's lots of them out there, but this does a reasonable job and has some of those same methods that we just looked at.

Let's say you're using a system and you have some sensitive information, let's say some social security numbers or salaries or something for employees that you don't want other people to access.

### DP Shredder 07:49-09:12

You can launch this DP Shredder program, go find the specific file or perhaps even an entire directory, and get rid of it. Let's go ahead and select the specific file. It's on the desktop, we'll scroll down and select sensitive employee information and then you can see we have some options down here.

In this case, we could do the three pass process by the DOD or the seven pass, probably even better. You can see the RCMP, the Gutmann, or the pseudo-random data also.

Let's go ahead and just select that same option we used before. We're only going to do one round of this standard but each piece of data will be overwritten seven different times.

Once we've specified that, we can click the Start button. Of course we can get info about what happens. You can see here how this standard is implemented within the program.

Let's go ahead and do that and you can see here that the operation completed and we can have confidence that that file and that data no longer exists on our system.

What happens if you've already deleted a directory or some files and you want to make sure you can get rid of them?

You can use this program to do that as well and that's under this option right here where you can select to overwrite the free space on a drive using a method that's selected and you can select the entire disk, click start, and it would process all of the free space where data isn't currently written and kept track of according to the system.

### Summary 09:12-09:37

Okay, that's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we talked about the importance of wiping hard disk drives.

We showed you the DBAN utility to wipe an entire disk drive and then we ended showing you the DP Shredder program in order to erase specific files or directories so that we can have confidence that the information, that sensitive information on hard drives, is gone.
