---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 6.3 Authorization
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What three types of information make up an access token?
- On a Microsoft system, when is the access token generated?
- What types of objects are considered security principals?
- What is the difference between a discretionary access control list (DACL) and a system access control list (SACL)?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Examine an access token.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Authorization
    </td>
    <td>
     The process of controlling access to resources, such as computers, files, or printers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Access control list (ACL)
    </td>
    <td>
     A list that identifies users or groups who have specific security assignments to an object.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Permission
    </td>
    <td>
     A permission controls the type of access that is allowed or denied for an object.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Discretionary ACL (DACL)
    </td>
    <td>
     An implementation of discretionary access control (DAC) in which owners add users or groups to the DACL
        for an object and identify the permissions allowed for that object.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     System ACL (SACL)
    </td>
    <td>
     An ACL Microsoft uses for auditing to identify past actions users have performed on an object.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Security Principal
    </td>
    <td>
     An object such as a user account, computer account, and security group account that can be given
        permissions to an object.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     1.0 Identity Management and Authentication
     <blockquote>
      1.2 Harden Authentication
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     3.8 Given a scenario, implement authentication and authorization solutions.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Access control schemes
       <ul>
        <li>
         Filesystem permissions
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 6.3.1 Authorization

### Authorization 00:00-00:34

In this video, I'll go over authorization. Although you'll probably hear the terms authorization and authentication used interchangeably, they're actually quite different.

First, authentication asks the user who they are and verifies the user's identity so they can access a system. Authorization is what comes after this. It verifies the user's permissions to determine which specific resources the user is allowed access to. Authentication is validated using login credentials, and authorization is validated using an access control list, or ACL.

### Access Control Lists 00:34-01:17

An ACL is a list of permissions attached to a resource, such as a file or folder. The ACL lists several entries known as access control entries, which are basically users or groups that have access to the resource. Groups allow for efficient administration and make security implementation easier.

A New Technology File System access control list, or NTFS ACL, contains a DACL and an SACL. These are two distinct ACLs types. The D in DACL stands for Discretionary, and the S in SACL stands for System. So Discretionary ACLs specify permissions, and System ACLs are used to keep track of who's accessing a resource and making changes to it.

### Rights and Privileges 01:17-03:04

Another Microsoft term is security principals. Security principals include user accounts, computer accounts, and security group accounts. Each security principal has a unique Security ID called an SID. The system keeps track of all SIDs so that when a user logs onto a Microsoft system, the system creates an access token for him or her.

The access token includes the user account's SID, the SIDs of all security groups the user belongs to, and a list of the user's rights or privileges. User rights are rights that specific users have on the system. These are also known as privileges, and they're defined by the Local Security Policy or through the Microsoft Group Policy. When a user tries to access a resource, such as a shared folder, the user's access token with its SID is compared against the SIDs of the shared folder. If there's a match, the user can gain access to the resource.

For example, let's say that Frank attempts to access the Sales folder. When he does, the system reads the folder's ACL, which contains all users' and groups' SIDs that allow file access. When we look at the ACL here, we see that SID 5 has Read access, SID 7 has Read & write access, and SID 12 has Full control. This means that it's probably an administrator account. When we look at Frank's access token, we see that he has a user SID of 3, and that he's also been assigned to Group1, which has an SID of 7. So when the system compares his token with this folder's ACL, there's one match. Frank has access to the Sales folder because he's a member of Group1. No other SIDs match up, so Frank is only granted Read & write file access. This is a simple example, but you get the idea.

NTFS permissions get a lot more complicated than this. But in essence, they're just a way to allow users access to certain Microsoft system resources.

### Summary 03:04-03:22

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed authorization. While we mainly focused on Microsoft NTFS systems, most of the terms we used are generic. Access control lists are widely used for assigning user permissions and privileges.

## 6.3.2 Cumulative Access

### Cumulative Access 00:00-00:17

In this video, I'm going to talk about cumulative access. As a security administrator, one of your most important jobs is to control both file system and network resource access. You do this using permissions, privileges, and roles.

### Cumulative Access via Roles and Groups 00:17-01:43

Permissions, privileges, and roles are usually cumulative. As such, it's easy to inadvertently give someone access to something that you don't want them to have access to. When you assign rights to users, groups, and other accounts, you need to ask yourself, "Do I really want this person to have this access level?" If your system supports the concept of a role, you can create a role definition. In some systems, it might called be a role object. This role or role object isn't actually a user account, but we use it in a similar way. A role is kind of like a template. You build a role, add the desired access, and then you can use that shell of an account to create new accounts as needed.

For example, let's say that Sally is the payroll assistant. She's worked at the company for ten years and has access to all the files and systems that she needs to be effective at her job. One day, Sally is promoted to payroll manager, and Frank is hired to take over as payroll assistant. If her user account was created from scratch, you'd have to start all over to redesign Frank's account. But if you'd created Sally's account using a role specifically made for payroll employees, you could use that same role to create Frank's new account. This makes things much easier and much more secure. We simply add or remove users from roles instead of having to remember which user needs which privileges added or removed.

Not every system uses the roles concept. For example, Windows Active Directory doesn't have an object called a role object. But Active Directory groups are more or less the same thing.

### Limit a User's Roles 01:43-02:48

Whatever system you're using, you need to remember that each user receives all member groups' access privileges in addition to its own specific assignments. Cumulative access can get out of control pretty quickly. Over time, users end up with too much access to the file system. The best way to reduce this problem is to limit a single user's assigned number of roles. If you can help it at all, don't assign multiple roles.

Take Sally and Frank, for example. Currently, they're both in payroll. But now that Sally is a manager, she needs access to additional employee information, like salaries and financial history. You could solve this by leaving Sally in her current payroll employee role and adding her to the HR role. By doing this, though, you're probably giving her access to too much information. She obviously needs access to salary information, but she doesn't need access to employee reviews or disciplinary files. Instead, you should probably create a payroll management role. If you're dealing with a situation where none of the roles provide the access level needed for a given user, it's a much better option to create a completely new role that has the necessary access level instead of assigning that user to multiple roles.

### Summary 02:48-03:03

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about cumulative access in relation to roles and groups. We also discussed the importance of limiting a single user's number of roles.

## 6.3.3 Authorization Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Authorization
- Access control lists (ACLs)
- Permissions, privileges, and roles

### Authorization

Authorization is the process of controlling access to resources such as computers, files, or printers. When managing access to resources, be aware of the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    A group is an object that identifies a set of users with similar
        access needs. Microsoft systems have two kinds of groups: distribution
        and security. Only security groups can be used for controlling access to
        objects.
   </li>
   <li>
    When you assign permissions to a group, it grants those same
        permissions to all members of the group.
   </li>
   <li>
    On a Microsoft system, a user right is a privilege or action that can
        be taken on a system, such as logging on, shutting down, backing up the
        system, or modifying the system date and time.
   </li>
   <li>
    Permissions apply to objects (files, folders, printers, etc.), while
        user rights apply to the entire system (the computer).
   </li>
  </ul>

### Access Control Lists

An access control list identifies users or groups who have specific security assignments to an object. The term permission identifies the type of access that is allowed or denied for the object. For example, permissions for a file include read and write, and they can either allow or deny the specified access. The table below describes two types of New Technology File System (NTFS) access lists:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Discretionary access control list (DACL)
     </td>
     <td>
      A discretionary access control list is an
            implementation of discretionary access control (DAC). Owners add
            users or groups to the DACL for an object and identify the
            permissions allowed for that object.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      System access control list (SACL)
     </td>
     <td>
      A system access control list is used by Microsoft
            for auditing in order to identify past actions performed by users on
            an object.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

A security principal is an object that can be given permissions to an object. Security principals include user accounts, computer accounts, and security group accounts.

<ul>
   <li>
    Each security principal is given a unique identification number called
        a Security ID (SID).
   </li>
   <li>
    When a security principal logs on, an access token is generated. The
        access token is used for controlling access to resources and contains
        the SID for the user or computer, for all groups the user or computer is
        a member of, and the user rights granted to the security principal.
   </li>
   <li>
    When the security principal tries to access a resource or take an
        action, information in the access token is checked. For example, when a
        user tries to access a file, the access token is checked for the SID of
        the user and all groups. The SIDs are then compared to the SIDs in the
        object's DACL to identify permissions that apply.
   </li>
   <li>
    On a Microsoft system, the access token is only generated during
        authentication. Changes made to group memberships or user rights do not
        take effect until the user logs on again and a new access token is
        created.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Permissions, Privileges, and Roles

A key part of any security administrator's job is to control access to resources. Access to resources is controlled using permissions, privileges, and roles. Permissions, privileges, and roles are usually cumulative, making it possible for one user account to receive access to more than one entity.

Types of permissions are described in the table below.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Permission Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Effective permissions
     </td>
     <td>
      Access rights (permissions) are cumulative. If you
            are a member of two groups with different permissions, you have the
            combined permissions of both groups (this is known as effective
            permissions). Effective permissions are the combination of inherited
            permissions and explicit permissions.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Deny permissions
     </td>
     <td>
      Deny permissions always override Allow
            permissions. For example, if a user belongs to two groups and a
            specific permission is allowed for one group and denied for the
            other, the permission is denied. However, the exception to this rule
            comes with inherited permissions. If an object has an explicit Allow
            permission entry, inherited Deny permissions do not prevent access
            to the object. Explicit permissions override inherited permissions,
            including Deny permissions.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Cumulative permissions
     </td>
     <td>
      The following suggestions will help you plan
            permissions and mitigate issues related to cumulative permissions:
      <ul>
       <li>
        Identify the users and their access needs (the actions each
                user needs to be able to perform).
       </li>
       <li>
        Create a group for each type of users with similar needs.
                Then, make the users members of the appropriate group.
       </li>
       <li>
        Assign each group (not user) the permissions appropriate to
                the group's data access needs. Grant only the permissions that
                are necessary.
       </li>
       <li>
        Take inheritance into account as you assign permissions.
                Inheritance means that permissions granted to a parent container
                object flow down to child objects within the container. Set
                permissions as high as possible on the parent container and
                allow each child container to inherit the permissions.
       </li>
       <li>
        Override inheritance on a case-by-case basis when necessary.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 6.3.4 Examining the Access Token

### Examining the Access Token 00:00-00:41

In this demonstration, we're going to spend some time working with access tokens. We're going to look at the access token that's granted to a Windows user when they log in to a Windows domain.

I'm currently logged in to this Windows 10 system as the dfellows user in the CorpNet.xyz domain. We can verify this using the ‘whoami' command at the command prompt. Press Enter, and we see that I'm logged in as dfellows in the CorpNet domain, which is nice to know, but it's not terribly useful. But if we do a ‘whoami' with the ‘/all' option, then we see more interesting information. We see the access token that was granted to the dfellows user when I initially logged in.

### Security Identifier (SID) 00:41-01:46

One of the first things we see is the SID, which is a unique number associated with my user account. In addition, you see my domain and username. We also see the SID of all the different groups that my user account is a member of. First, we see all of the default local groups it's part of. Down here, we also see the domain groups that my account is a member of, such as the Night Shift group, the Day Shift group, and the Enterprise Admins group.

The third section of the access token is Privileges Information. These privileges are also known as user rights. It tells me what my user account can do on the system. For example, there's the Change the system time user right, which my account doesn't have. For me, it's disabled along with a lot of other rights.

Let's go back up here and look at the SID. The key thing to remember about this number, the security identifier, is the fact that when I try to access a file or folder in the NTFS file system, the SID in my access token is compared to the SIDs in the Access Control List of the file or folder. If they match up, I get some form of access, or I may be denied access depending on how the ACL is configured.

### Verify Group Membership 01:46-02:38

At this point, let's go ahead and switch over to my domain controller. On my SRV2019 domain controller, which is the domain controller for my CorpNet.xzy domain, I want to verify the group membership of my dfellows user account that we just looked at.

To do this, I'll come over to Tools and go to Active Directory Users and Computers. In the CorpNet domain, I need to locate my dfellows user account. I happen to know that dfellows is in the CorpNetUsers organizational unit. I'll Select it. Right-click on the account. Let's go to Properties and go to the Member Of tab, and I can see a list of all of the groups that my user is a member of.

I'm a member of Day Shift, Domain Admins, Domain Users, Enterprise Admins, and Night Shift. However, there are many other groups in my domain that I could be a member of. For example, in marketing, I have a group called Marketing. But I'm not currently a member of that group.

### Implicit Deny 02:38-04:47

To see how the access token determines the level of access I have to files and folders in the NTFS file system, let's come down to File Explorer and go to my C: drive. We have a folder here named SharedFiles, and this folder is currently shared. Let's see who it's shared with. Click on Properties. Go to Sharing. Let's go to Advanced Sharing and then to Permissions.

Here, you can see that two groups have been granted access to this folder. These are the groups that are in the ACL of the SharedFiles folder. Anyone who's a member of either of these groups receives the permissions defined below.

We want to see how the access token works, so let's remove these groups--remember, my dfellows user account is a member of both of these. Let's go ahead and remove these groups and add another group that my user account isn't a member of, for example, the Marketing group we just looked at.

Let's grant Marketing full control. Let's remove Everyone, click Remove, and then click Administrators. Click Remove once again. Hit Apply, OK, OK again, and Close. The SharedFiles folder is now shared with any user who's a member of Marketing. dfellows is not a member of Marketing. Let's go ahead and see what happens now if I try to access this folder from my client system.

Back on my client system, where I'm still logged in as the dfellows user, I come down to Search, and let's enter ‘\\srv2019'. Press Enter, and it should open File Explorer with a list of all the shares currently available on the file server. There's our SharedFiles share.

Within this share, there are a couple of documents. Let's see if I can access them. If I double-click, there's a problem. I can't access the folder because of the Access Control list. My access token isn't there. I'm not on the list, so I can't access the share. This is an example of Implicit Deny. Remember, with Implicit Deny, if there's no match, then, automatically, access is denied. That's the case here. Only a user who's a member of the Marketing group can access this share.

Let's go ahead and fix this. I'll close this window.

### Add a User to a Group 04:47-05:26

Let's go back over to the domain controller and add the dfellows user to the Marketing group. Here's my Marketing group that I want to add my user account to. I can do this in two ways. I can right-click here, go to Properties, and then go to the Members tab and add my user account there. Or I could come to the user account itself, right-click, and say Add to Group. Either way, it does the same thing.

Let's add it to the Marketing group. Group operation was successful. Click OK. Let's just verify that. Go to Properties. Go to the Member Of tab. Sure enough, I'm a member of Marketing now. OK.

Example of Access Token is Assigned at Login 05:26-06:23
Now let's go back over to my Windows 10 workstation and try accessing the share again. Let's come back down to Search, and let's access our list of shares available. There's the SharedFiles share. If I double-click on it, I still can't access it. Why not? I was added to the Marketing group. The Marketing group is in the Access Control list of the share. In fact, it has full control over the share. Why can't I access it?

The key thing to remember here is that the access token over here, for my dfellows user account, was created when I logged in. I made the change to my group membership for my user account after I had already logged in. In fact, if we come down to the bottom and we type the ‘whoami /all' command again, you can see that I'm still a member of just Research, Support, and Enterprise Admins as far as my access token is concerned. It doesn't list the Marketing group. That's because we've made the change in group membership since I logged in.

### Log in to Re-Issue the Token 06:23-06:56

In order to fix this and add the Marketing group to the access token, I have to log off as dfellows on the system and then log back in as that user account again, which will re-issue my access token. This should make this account a member of the Marketing group and give us access to the shared folder.

Let's go ahead and do that. All right. I've logged off, and now I've logged back in. Let's check my access token to see if the Marketing group has been added. Do ‘whoami /all' one more time. Notice, when I scroll down here and look, I can see that the Marketing group has been added.

### Verify Access 06:56-07:26

Let's test it. We'll come down here, open up my run box again, and browse the various shares available on the server. There's my ShardFiles share. If I double-click on it this time, I have access to the files. Remember, we gave the Marketing group full control, so I'm actually allowed to go in and have access to the file. I can add, modify, delete, or do anything that someone with full access can do. I'm able to do that because now, the Marketing group is in the access token of the dfellows user account.

### Summary 07:26-07:52

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we looked at the access token that's assigned to a Windows user when they log in to the Windows domain. We've looked at the group membership contained within the access token. Then we did a little experiment to show how the access token is assigned when the user logs in, and any changes made to the user account's group membership aren't reflected until the next login.
