---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 6.2 Authentication
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What is the difference between authentication factors and attributes?
- What is an example of the "something you are" authentication type?
- What is an example of the "something you have" authentication type?
- What is an example of the "something you know" authentication type?
- What is multi-factor authentication?
- Which physical attributes can be used to identify an individual?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Use a biometric scanner.
- Use single sign-on.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Identification
    </td>
    <td>
     The initial process of confirming the identity of a user requesting credentials. This occurs when a
        user enters a user ID at logon.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Authentication
    </td>
    <td>
     The verification of the issued identification 
		credentials. It is usually the second step in the identification process 
		and establishes that you are who you say you are.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Multifactor authentication
    </td>
    <td>
     A method of confirming identity by using two or more pieces of evidence (or factors) to an
        authentication mechanism.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     False negative
    </td>
    <td>
     An error that occurs when a person who should be allowed access is denied access.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     False positive
    </td>
    <td>
     An error that occurs when a person who should be denied access is allowed access.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Crossover error rate
    </td>
    <td>
     The point at which the number of false positives matches the number of false negatives in a biometric
        system.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Processing rate
    </td>
    <td>
     The number of subjects or authentication attempts that can be validated.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     1.0 Identity Management and Authentication
     <blockquote>
      1.2 Harden Authentication
     </blockquote>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     2.4 Summarize authentication and authorization design concepts.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Authentication methods
       <ul>
        <li>
         Directory services
         <ul>
          <li>
           Federation
          </li>
          <li>
           Attestation
          </li>
          <li>
           Technologies
           <ul>
            <li>
             Time-based one-time password (TOTP)
            </li>
            <li>
             HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP)
            </li>
            <li>
             Short message service (SMS)
            </li>
            <li>
             Token key
            </li>
            <li>
             Static codes
            </li>
            <li>
             Authentication applications
            </li>
            <li>
             Push notifications
            </li>
            <li>
             Phone call
            </li>
           </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
           Smart card authentication
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Biometrics
         <ul>
          <li>
           Fingerprint
          </li>
          <li>
           Retina
          </li>
          <li>
           Iris
          </li>
          <li>
           Facial
          </li>
          <li>
           Voice
          </li>
          <li>
           Vein
          </li>
          <li>
           Gait analysis
          </li>
          <li>
           Efficacy rates
          </li>
          <li>
           False acceptance
          </li>
          <li>
           False rejection
          </li>
          <li>
           Crossover error rate
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Multifactor authentication (MFA) factors and attributes
         <ul>
          <li>
           Factors
           <ul>
            <li>
             Something you know
            </li>
            <li>
             Something you have
            </li>
            <li>
             Something you are
            </li>
           </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
           Attributes
           <ul>
            <li>
             Somewhere you are
            </li>
            <li>
             Something you can do
            </li>
            <li>
             Something you exhibit
            </li>
            <li>
             Someone you know
            </li>
           </ul>
          </li>
          <li>
           Authentication, authorization, and accounting (AAA)
          </li>
          <li>
           Cloud vs. on-premises requirements
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
       <p>
        3.7 Given a scenario, implement identity and account management controls.
       </p>
       <ul>
        <li>
         Identity
         <ul>
          <li>
           Identity provider (IdP)
          </li>
          <li>
           Attributes
          </li>
          <li>
           Certificates
          </li>
          <li>
           Tokens
          </li>
          <li>
           SSH keys
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
       <p>
        3.8 Given a scenario, implement authentication and authorization solutions.
       </p>
       <ul>
        <li>
         Authentication
         <ul>
          <li>
           EAP
          </li>
          <li>
           802.1X
          </li>
          <li>
           Single sign-on (SSO)
          </li>
          <li>
           Security Assertions Markup Language (SAML)
          </li>
          <li>
           OAuth
          </li>
          <li>
           OpenID
          </li>
          <li>
           Kerberos
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
       <p>
        5.3 Explain the importance of policies to organizational security.
       </p>
       <ul>
        <li>
         Personnel
         <ul>
          <li>
           Job rotation
          </li>
          <li>
           Separation of duties
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 6.2.1 Authentication

### Authentication 00:00-00:25

In this video, we'll discuss authentication, the process of verifying a claimed identity. To verify an identity, we need some unique pieces of information or data that could only come from that particular individual. Multifactor authentication requires that more than one method of authentication and consists of factors and attributes.

### Authentication Factors 00:25-00:34

There are three main factors that are used in multifactor authentication: something you know, something you have, and something you are.

### Something You Know 00:34-01:40

First let's look at something you know. This commonly used authentication method requires the user to provide a piece of information that only they know. The most familiar example is a password. The password is something that only the user should know for their authentication.

A PIN is another example of something you know authentication. Unlike a password, a PIN is limited to numerical digits. Another example is cognitive information. This is when a question is provided that only the user can answer. Often, for account recovery methods, a company will ask users to supply answers to certain questions, such as your mother's maiden name or the name of your first pet.

Something you know is the weakest authentication type because people often choose not to use complex passwords, or they'll share passwords, write passwords down where others can access them, or use the same passwords for multiple accounts. Educating users on password etiquette as well as enforcing clean desk, password aging, and complex password policies are all things you can do as a security professional to make this type of authentication a bit more secure.

### Something You Have 01:40-01:53

The next authentication type is sometimes referred to as token-based authentication. It requires a user to authenticate using an object, like a smart card, a security token on a key fob, or a USB device.

### Attributes 01:53-02:06

Next, let's look at attributes. Attributes are different from factors because they don't verify a user's identity on their own. However, they do help to improve security and work well in multifactor authentication systems.

### Somewhere You Are 02:06-03:24

Somewhere you are authentication uses a physical location to verify a user's identity. For example, you may have a desktop system that's configured to allow authentication requests only if the user has passed through the building's entrance using their ID card. If the user tries to log in to the desktop, the system will look to see if the user has entered the building. If not, the user's account is locked.

Another somewhere you are example uses a radio-frequency identification, or RFID, proximity reader.

A desktop system may be configured with an RFID proximity reader while the user carries a corresponding RFID badge. If the user is within range, they're authenticated to the system. The user moving out of range automatically locks the system.

Another common somewhere you are example is using GPS location data to unlock mobile devices. For example, if your phone is within a certain geographical area, it can be automatically unlocked. If it moves outside that location, it will be locked and require a PIN or password to unlock. Bluetooth can also be used for this type of authentication. If you're in range of a device via Bluetooth, you can configure your mobile device to automatically unlock itself.

### Something You Do 03:24-03:49

Another authentication type is something you do. This type requires the user to perform a particular action to verify the user's identity.

For example, the user might be required to supply a handwriting sample that's analyzed against a baseline sample.

It could also require a typing test, where the user is required to type some sample text, and the user's typing behaviors are analyzed against a baseline sample.

### Something You Exhibit 03:49-04:17

Another attribute could be something that you exhibit, such as a personality trait or a habit. Authentication systems can note the time of day you usually log on, the method you generally use for access, or the types of tasks you perform often. When administrators notice unusual activity or risky behavior, they may choose to restrict access to these users. This could mean requiring a password change, requiring another method of authentication, or even blocking the user's access.

### Someone You Know 04:17-04:59

You've probably heard the phrase, "it's not just what you know, it's who you know." Having someone who can vouch for you can go a long way to establish relationships and build trust. The same is true for authentication. One example of this trust is certificates.

Certificate authorities issue certificates to organizations that they trust. These organizations are intermediary certificate authorities who then issue certificates to their users. This creates a chain of trust that verifies that the subject named in the certificate can be trusted and has been verified by a certificate authority. Certificates are commonly used for logging into secure sites or for signing documents electronically.

### Summary 04:59-05:23

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed the factors of multifactor authentication. These include something you know, something you have, and something you are. We also discussed the attributes of multifactor authentication, which include somewhere you are, something you do, something you exhibit, and someone you know.

## 6.2.2 Authentication Methods

### Authentication Methods 00:00-00:37

To authenticate to a system, a user needs to provide the correct credentials, which usually means a username and password. After that, the system checks an access service or protocol to ensure a match with existing credentials. Let's look at a few of the authentication methods you need to be aware of as a security professional.

The authentication process itself doesn't determine your authorization level. In other words, authentication doesn't determine what you can access; it only determines who you are. Your authorization level is determined by the application after you actually authenticate to the system.

### Directory Services 00:37-01:01

First, let's look at directory services. Directory services provide a single sign-on location for multiple network resources. Examples include Microsoft's Active Directory, LDAP directory services, and Azure Active Directory, which is another Microsoft service used for cloud-access management. Directory services' users sign on with a domain user account to gain access to available domain resources.

### Federation 01:01-01:42

Another authentication method is a federation. A federation is a group of domains that've established enough trust to share authorizations with each other. A federation can be used within a single organization with multiple domains, or it can include several trusted organizations that want to pool their resources. The good thing about this authentication method is that everything's on site, providing the administration with detailed access control levels.

For example, let's say you wanted both local and remote users to log into your on-premises Active Directory. Once you've been authenticated and authorized locally, you would also be able to access Office 365 and any other local or cloud-based applications within your federation.

### Attestation 01:42-02:08

Another authentication method is attestation. Attestation is a protocol that's used to prove that software can be trusted. It tells the remote user that the software in question is legitimate and certified. Attestation usually works in both parties' interest.

For example, say you were going to log into your bank account. You would want to be sure that the site you're logging into is trustworthy, and the bank would want to be sure that the correct individual is logging into your account.

### Single Sign-On 02:08-02:39

The next method is single sign-on, also known as SSO. SSO is an authentication method an organization can use to reduce the number of credentials a user needs to have.

Imagine that you need to log into your workstation, log into the company portal, log in to check your emails, and then log in yet again to access your video conferencing software. Instead of assigning four different credentials, it would be better to implement an SSO. Since this service shares authentication sessions between systems, you automatically receive access to all the sessions if you log into one.

### OAuth and OpenID Connect 02:39-04:49

The next method to know is OAuth. Although OAuth works closely with authentication services, it doesn't actually provide authentication services. Instead, OAuth provides authorization services. In other words, it authorizes an entity to obtain information, but it doesn't actually verify the entity itself. Essentially, OAuth lets a third party access a user's information from another website without needing to provide a password. It acts as an intermediary between two entities and provides access tokens that manage the exchange of specific information.

OAuth has a few main components. It starts with a user that wants to access multiple apps without needing to create a bunch of new accounts. Next, you need the client software app found on a computer, mobile phone, or any other smart device. You also need a resource server that the user and client are trying to access and an authorization server that provides a token for the user and client to access the resource server with.

Let's say you, the user, install an app on your phone. When you open up the new app, you're prompted to log in using your Facebook or Google account. If you decide to use your Facebook account, you're redirected to Facebook's authorization server to get an access token. The authorization server authenticates you as the user, and the app uses OAuth to grant an access token with very specific information from the app. Now, when the app goes to the resource server with that token, you're registered and logged into the app with only limited access to your Facebook information.

So, where is the authentication? Well, that's where OpenID Connect, or OIDC, comes in. OIDC is built on the OAuth framework and provides the needed authentication service. Remember, OAuth only provides authorization. OIDC takes it a step further and provides identity authentication. OIDC also accesses stored personal information and preferences from an identity layer that the user has previously disclosed. This layer provides the website with the user's information and the where, when, and how of the authentication as well as which attributes the user wants to share with that specific website and why. Big companies like Google and Microsoft use OIDC, so it's pretty secure and reliable.

### Shibboleth 04:49-05:20

Now, let's look at Shibboleth. Shibboleth is a web-based and open-source alternative to single sign-on services. It's also used for network and internet authentication and, like the previous authentication services we've talked about, only uses one credential set for multiple websites. Authentication messages are sent with Security Assertion Markup Language, or SAML, which allows a client to log on once for separate but affiliated websites. You'll see this service used mostly by universities and public organizations.

### Kerberos 05:20-05:45

Kerberos is an open-source authentication option that was developed by MIT, which they created to protect network services on their campus-wide computing environment. Kerberos is now used extensively in UNIX, Linux, and Windows Active Directory environments. Kerberos has several functions, including a single sign-on capability and mutual authentication. Another cool thing is that Kerberos makes use of both symmetric and asymmetric key cryptography.

### Summary 05:45-06:11

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about several different authentication methods. These include directory services, federations, attestation, single sign-on, OAuth, OpenID Connect, Shibboleth, and Kerberos. As a security professional, knowing and understanding these authentication methods will benefit you immensely in your future endeavors.

## 6.2.3 Authentication Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Authentication
- Identity
- Authentication methods

### Authentication

To access resources on a network, you must prove who you are and that you have the required permissions. This process consists of the following elements:

<ul>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Identification
    </i>
    is the initial process of confirming your identity when you request credentials. It occurs when you
      enter a userid to log on. Identity proofing occurs during the identification phase as you prove that you are who you say you
      are in order to obtain credentials. If you have been identified previously but cannot provide the assigned authentication
      credentials (such as a lost password), identity proofing is called upon again.
   </li>
   <li>
    <i class="fs-italicize">
     Authentication
    </i>
    is the verification of the issued identification credentials. It is usually the second step in the
      identification process and establishes your identity, ensuring that you are who you say you are.
   </li>
  </ul>

To verify an identity, you need some unique piece of information or data that could come only from you. Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) requires more than one method of identification and uses factors and attributes. The following is a description of each type of factor:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Factor
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Something you know
    </td>
    <td>
     Something you know authentication requires you to provide a password or some other data that you know.
        This is the weakest type of authentication, but also the most commonly used. Examples of something you know authentication
        controls are:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Passwords, codes, or IDs.
      </li>
      <li>
       PINs.
      </li>
      <li>
       Passphrases (long, sentence-length passwords).
      </li>
      <li>
       Cognitive information, such as questions that only you can answer, such as mother's maiden name, the model of
          your first car, or the city where you were born.
      </li>
      <li>
       Composition passwords are created by the system and are usually two or more unrelated words divided by symbols on the
          keyboard.
      </li>
     </ul>
     Usernames are not a form of something you know authentication. Usernames are often easy to discover or guess. Only the
        passwords or other information associated with the usernames can be used to validate identity. To be safe, the same
        password should not be used for more than one application or website.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Something you have
    </td>
    <td>
     Something you have, also called token-based authentication, bases authentication on something physical
        you have in your possession. Examples of something you have authentication controls include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Swipe cards (similar to credit cards) with authentication information stored on the magnetic strip.
      </li>
      <li>
       Photo IDs are very useful when combined with other forms of authentication, but are high-risk if they are the only
          form of required authentication. Photo IDs are easily manipulated or reproduced, require personnel for verification, and
          cannot be verified against a system.
      </li>
      <li>
       Key fobs are small, programmable hardware often used to provide access to buildings and open doors. Key fobs are
          often attached to a keychain.
      </li>
      <li>
       Security tokens generate a unique password when activated manually. These passwords are used one time and usually
          expire in minutes. Types of token-based authentication include:
       <ul>
        <li>
         A static password that is saved on the token device. Swiping the token supplies the password for
            authentication.
        </li>
        <li>
         Synchronous dynamic password systems that generate new passwords at specific intervals on the hardware token. You
            must read the generated password and enter it along with the PIN to gain access.
        </li>
        <li>
         An asynchronous dynamic password system that generates new passwords based on an event, such as pressing a
            key.
        </li>
        <li>
         A challenge response system that generates a random challenge string. The challenge text is entered into the token,
            along with the PIN. The token then uses both to generate a response used for authentication.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Smart cards contain a memory chip with encrypted authentication information. Smart cards can:
       <ul>
        <li>
         Require contact such as swiping, or they can be contactless.
        </li>
        <li>
         Contain microprocessor chips with the ability to add, delete, and manipulate data.
        </li>
        <li>
         Store digital signatures, cryptography keys, and identification codes.
        </li>
        <li>
         Use a private key for authentication to log a user into a network. The private key is used to digitally sign
            messages.
        </li>
        <li>
         Be based on challenge response. You are given a code (the challenge) which you enter into the smart card. The smart
            card then displays a new code (the response) that you can present to log in.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Smart cards typically use certificates for identification and authentication. With certificates, the digital document
          is associated with a user in one of the following ways:
       <ul>
        <li>
         With a one-to-one mapping, each certificate maps to an individual user account (each user has a unique
            certificate).
        </li>
        <li>
         With many-to-one mapping, a certificate maps to many user accounts (a group of users share the same
            certificate).
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Something you are
    </td>
    <td>
     Something you are authentication uses a biometric system. A biometric system attempts to identify you
        based on metrics or a mathematical representation of a biological attribute, such as eye or fingerprint. This is the most
        expensive and least accepted but is generally considered to be the most secure form of authentication.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

Attributes are different from factors because they do not, on their own, verify your identity. However, they do help to improve security and work well when Multi-Factor Authentication is needed. The following table describes each type of attribute:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Attribute
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Something you can do
    </td>
    <td>
     This requires you to perform a particular action to verify your identity. Here are a few examples of an
        action that can be used:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Supply a handwritten sample that’s analyzed against a baseline sample for authentication.
      </li>
      <li>
       Type sample text. Your typing behaviors are analyzed against a baseline before authentication.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Something you exhibit
    </td>
    <td>
     Something that you exhibit could include a personality trait or a habit. For example:
     <ul>
      <li>
       The time of day you usually log on.
      </li>
      <li>
       The method you usually use to access information.
      </li>
      <li>
       The types of tasks you usually perform.
      </li>
     </ul>
     When administrators notice unusual or risky behavior, they may choose to restrict access. This could mean requiring a
        password change, requiring another method of authentication, or even blocking your access.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Somewhere you are
    </td>
    <td>
     Somewhere you are (also known as geolocation) uses physical location to verify your identity. Examples
        of implementations include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A desktop system configured to allow authentication requests only if you have passed through the building's
          entrance using your ID card. If your are not in the building, your account is locked.
      </li>
      <li>
       A system configured with an RFID proximity reader and required RFID badges. If you are within the RFID range of the
          workstation, authentication requests are allowed. If you move out of range, the workstation is immediately locked and
          re-authentication is not allowed until you move back within range.
      </li>
      <li>
       GPS location data is used to determine a device's location. If you and the device are in a specified location,
          authentication requests are allowed. If not, the device is locked or additional authentication factors are
          requested.
      </li>
      <li>
       Wi-Fi triangulation is used to determine a device's location. If you and the device are in a specified location,
          authentication requests are allowed. If not, the device is locked, or additional authentication factors are
          requested.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Someone you know
    </td>
    <td>
     Having someone who can vouch for you can go a long way in establishing relationships and building
        trust. The same is true with authentication. Certificates and attestation are examples of this attribute.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Identity

Identity is as simple as telling someone your name. In the computer world, a username is a form of identification. Because anyone could pretend to be you, identification alone is not very secure. To substantiate your identity, you need to provide some type of verification that you are who you say you are. The following chart provides a few of the basics of identity authentication.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Identity Provider
     <br>
     (IdP)
    </td>
    <td>
     An identity provider is an online service that manages identity information for other organizations.
        The IdP creates records from an organization’s existing data and policies. These records are used to authenticate user
        requests.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Attributes
    </td>
    <td>
     Attributes can be your role, position, or current project. This information can be used to determine
        policy and permission.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Certificates
    </td>
    <td>
     Certificates are issued by a certificate authority and verify identity by providing the following:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Public keys
      </li>
      <li>
       Details on the owner of the certificate
      </li>
      <li>
       Details on the issuer of the certificate
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Tokens
    </td>
    <td>
     A token is a device or a file used to authenticate. A hardware token, such as a key fob, serves as
        something you have. A software token, also known as a soft token, is stored in devices such as laptops, desktops, or mobile
        phones. These tokens are specific to the device, and cannot be altered or duplicated.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     SSH Keys
    </td>
    <td>
     A secure shell (SSH) key is an access credential. It operates like usernames and passwords but is
        mostly used to implement single sign-on and other automated processes.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Authentication Methods

The following table describes authentication methods.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Method
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Directory Services
    </td>
    <td>
     Directory services implement single sign-on for resources on the network. Examples are:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Active Directory on a Microsoft network
      </li>
      <li>
       LDAP Directory Services
      </li>
      <li>
       Azure Active Directory is an identity and access management solution for the cloud
      </li>
     </ul>
     Single sign-on can be implemented between directory services of different systems. For example, single sign-on can be
        implemented if the directory services are compatible, such as Microsoft and Linux systems. In this case, logging into a
        Linux system would authenticate you to access resources on the Microsoft network that you have permissions to access.
        Directory services users sign on using a domain user account and password to gain access to resources available on the
        domain.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Federation
    </td>
    <td>
     A federation is a group of domains that have established trust and therefore shared authorizations. A
        federation can be within one organization with multiple domains or it can include several trusted organizations to share
        resources. The good thing about this method of authentication is that everything happens onsite and provides detailed
        levels of access control.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Attestation
    </td>
    <td>
     Attestation is a protocol that is used to prove that software can be trusted. It tells the remote user
        that the application or OS software is legitimate and has been certified. Attestation can work both ways. Say you were
        going to log into your bank account. You want to be sure that the site you are logging into is trustworthy and the bank
        wants to be sure that the correct individual is logging into the account.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 6.2.4 Biometrics and Authentication Technologies

### Biometrics and Advanced Authentication 00:00-00:20

In this lesson, we'll look at biometrics and some of the other technologies used for multifactor authentication. Remember, authentication is the process of verifying a claimed identity. And to verify an identity, we need a unique piece of information that could only come from one person.

### Biometrics 00:20-02:04

Biometric authentication has come a long way. You're probably familiar with fingerprint and retina scans, but did you know that people can also be identified by their iris, facial structure, and even by their gait when they walk?

Biometric authentication requires capturing and storing a unique physical attribute in a biometric system. The initial capture is called enrollment. Subsequent authentication attempts are then tested against the stored biometric template. A few key parameters can determine whether an attribute is viable.

First, the physical attribute should be universal – something that everyone has. Second, the attribute should be unique. It should be measurable and so distinctive that it can be used to tell people apart. Third, the attribute should be permanent – in other words, it should hold up to aging. For example, a person's face might change considerably over time, but their fingerprint or retina will stay the same.

Fourth, the attribute must be collectable. In other words, how easy is it to acquire this measurable attribute? If collecting the measurement is difficult or invasive, it probably won't work. Lastly, the attribute must be difficult to duplicate. For example, if the attribute is the person's voice, it might be possible to evade the system using an audio recording. But if the attribute is the person's retina, then it's much more difficult to circumvent.

If errors do occur, they can be labeled as a false positive or a false negative. A false positive occurs when the biometric system returns a positive match and identifies an unauthorized user as a legitimate user.

A false negative occurs when the biometric system returns a negative match when a legitimate user tries to authenticate.

### Authentication Technologies 02:04-02:11

Now let's look at some other technologies that are used for authentication. You've probably already used a lot of these methods.

### Authenticator Applications 02:11-02:35

To provide an extra layer of security for their employees, some organizations use authenticator applications for their remote employees. An authenticator app, typically installed on a smartphone, provides a 6- to 8-digit code. Every 30 seconds, that code changes. The employee enter their username and password along with the code from the authenticator app, providing additional verification that you are who you say you are.

### One-Time Password 02:35-02:57

A similar method that you may have used is a one-time password.

Some banks use this method to allow ATM withdrawals without using a debit card or to let customers access their accounts from the internet.

An application or token creates a one-time password. This password will only work for a single login. After that, the password expires. The password also expires if it isn't used withing a short period of time.

### Short message service (SMS) 02:57-03:19

These one-time passwords can be sent to the users several ways.

For example, the one-time password can be sent using the Short Message Service, or SMS. When this option is selected, an SMS message with a one-time code or password is sent to your previously verified phone number. This code can then be used to verify your identify and complete your login.

### Phone Call 03:19-03:27

Similarly, if you chose to receive your code through the phone, you'll get a phone call and an automated voice will provide you with a one-time code or password.

### Push Notification Authentication 03:27-04:07

Push notification authentication can also be used to grant access to an account. For example, when you log in to your account, you'll enter your username, but instead of a password, you receive an access request notification on your mobile device. You can then view the authentication details and approve or deny access, typically with a simple press of a button.

One advantage of using this authentication method is that you don't have to remember passwords. However, this method only works with the services provided by a specific company. As a result, there are a limited number of applications that integrate with their services. This makes them unavailable to organizations that use enterprise-level and proprietary solutions.

### Summary 04:07-04:20

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we looked at biometric systems and several other authentication technologies used for multifactor authentication.

## 6.2.5 Using a Biometric Scanner

### Using a Biometric Scanner 00:00-00:22

In this demo, we are going to look at using a Biometric Finger Print Scanner. I'm working on my Windows 10 laptop and I've got a fingerprint scanner.

To set this up I'm going to go to Start, Settings, and on the left-hand side of the screen, I'm going to select Accounts and then Sign-in Options. Now to the right, we can see where it says Fingerprint.

### Enrollment and Swipe Fingers 00:22-01:06

So, when starting up a Biometric Fingerprint scanner, the initial process is called enrollment. It's going to record my fingerprint and then use that for future authentication.

We'll click Setup and after the Windows Hello setup window appears, we will select Get Started. Windows tells me to swipe my finger and to make sure it has a good reading, it will ask me to do this multiple times for each finger so let's go ahead and keep doing this.

After it has recorded your finger print it will ask you to add another finger. I recommend that you add multiple finger prints, from both hands, to your device. You will want to do this in case it has problems detecting one of the fingerprints. I'll use my ring finger, I'll roll that one multiple times until I am done.

### Backup Mechanism 01:06-01:53

Windows will ask you to create a backup mechanism using a PIN. Chances are you will never need it but in case Windows is not able to verify your finger print, you will have another method to authenticate into your machine.

So let's continue and click on the Set up PIN. First thing is that Windows wants to verify is that we are the authorized person setting this up. Let's enter our credentials here and press OK.

Now let's set up our PIN. Before doing this, lets look at the PIN requirements. If your machine is not part of a domain the default minimum length is four digits long. I'm going to just stick with the minimum for this demo. Take note that Windows will not allow you to enter something as simple as 1 2 3 4.

You must mix it up just a little. Lets continue with our PIN. At this point we are done enrolling our fingerprints.

### Managing Fingerprints 01:53-02:12

Now that we have created some fingerprints you will notice that the button has changed just a bit. There may be a time that we will have to come in and edit them or add another finger print.

There is also a Remove button but be aware that if you select the Remove button Windows does not prompt you for confirmation and you will lose all your settings.

### Testing our Fingerprint 02:12-02:29

Now that we have set up a Fingerprint scanner let's lock our machine and test it. I am going to locked my computer by pressing the Windows plus L key.

Now I am going to swipe my finger over my fingerprint scanner. And just like that Windows has authenticated my account by using my fingerprint and I am logged in.

### Summary 02:29-02:48

That's it for this demo. We went over the process on how to enroll our fingerprints, how to swipe our fingers, how to set up a pin, how to manage existing fingerprints and finally how to test to see if we can use our fingerprints to log into our system.

## 6.2.6 Using Single Sign-on

### Using Single Sign-on 00:00-00:50

In this demo, we're going to look at single sign-on, or SSO. Now, before we begin, I want to point out that you've probably used single sign-on without even knowing it. In fact, if you have a Gmail or Facebook account, then you've definitely used single sign-on. And if you've ever logged into a Windows domain on a computer, you've used single sign-on there too. Single sign-on is an authentication method that requires you to log in only once to have access to a wide range of services. In a domain, these services include things like file servers and print servers. When you log in, you can access the file server without providing authentication credentials again. It's really nice.

Now, we aren't going to see single sign-on with a domain in this demo. Instead, we're going to look at single sign-on with Google internet services.

### SSO with Google 00:50-01:47

Let's start by logging in to a google account. You're probably familiar with Google's email service, Gmail. Let's go to gmail.com and enter our login information. We've logged into Gmail. Because we logged into our single Gmail account, now we have access to all of these Googles services without needing to provide authentication credentials again. There are a lot of them. All of these services fall under the single sign-on of Google.

For example, let's click the YouTube icon, which will take us to YouTube's page. In the top right here, notice that we're automatically signed in. We didn't need to type our username or password. This is because YouTube is connected with Google, which uses a single sign-on service.

The same is true for other Google services. If we go back and click on Google Drive, we have access to that as well. No need to log in.

### Linkedin and Google Single Sign On 01:47-02:12

Let's search LinkedIn in Google. Click Join Now. Notice here, instead of creating an account with LinkedIn directly, we can create an account with Google. This creates a single sign-on link of sorts between LinkedIn and Google that makes it so when we're logged in on Google, we're also logged in on LinkedIn.

### Enable SSO on an Account 02:12-02:49

Let's try another. Let's go to wordpress.com. Click Log In and look down here. Instead of creating an account, we can link our Google account by clicking Continue with Google. When we do, we're asked which account to link.

We only have one, so I'll click on it. And now, after we wait a minute or two, an account will be created, and we're logged in to the service without needing to provide our password. Again, this is because of the single sign-on functionality that's been implemented between WordPress and Google.

### Sign Out 02:49-03:59

Now, because everything is linked to our Google account, when we log out of it, we're also logged out of those services. Let's do that. We'll log out of Gmail. The page will refresh, and we're asked to log in. So, what happened with Wordpress? Let's go back and look. I'll type ‘wordpress.com' and press Enter.

Back on WordPress, we're still logged in. This is probably because of how the session cookies are handled. We know we're logged out of Google, so let's log out of WordPress. I'm taken back to the logon page. Click Sign in. We're taken back to the Log in to your account page. I'll click Sign in with Google. Notice my account info here. My password is automatically populated. I'll click Next.

After just a few seconds, I'm logged back into WordPress. Now, guess what else happened? We were actually logging into our Google account again. If I jump back over to my Gmail account, you can see that I was logged back into there, too.

### Summary 03:59-04:39

As you can see, single sign-on can be extremely useful and convenient. However, as we know all too well, convenience comes with risk. For example, using single sign-on presents the risk that if someone were to compromise a single account, they could potentially have access to any service that has been linked to that account. One thing that can protect against this is multi-factor authentication, such as requiring a one-time key to access different services.

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we looked at single sign-on. We looked at a few different single sign-on features and how a single account can be used to access multiple services.

## 6.2.7 Biometrics and Authentication Technologies Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Biometric authentication
- Authentication technologies

Biometric authentication is based on a unique physical attribute or characteristic. This type of authentication requires capturing and storing a unique physical attribute with a biometric system. This initial capture is known as enrollment. Subsequent authentication attempts are tested against the stored biometric template. For biometric authentication to be a viable security mechanism, it must conform to the following parameters:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Parameter
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Universal
    </td>
    <td>
     Does each person have the physical attribute being measured?
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Unique
    </td>
    <td>
     Is the physical attribute distinctive enough that it can be used to distinguish between individuals?
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Permanent
    </td>
    <td>
     How well does the specified attribute hold up to aging?
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Collectible
    </td>
    <td>
     How easy is it to acquire this measurable attribute?
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Circumvention
    </td>
    <td>
     Can the attribute be easily circumvented?
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Accuracy
    </td>
    <td>
     Are the results accurate? Accuracy is extremely critical in a biometric system. Most devices can be configured for
        increased or reduced sensitivity. Note the following as it relates to biometric accuracy:
     <ul>
      <li>
       False rejection (or false negative) occurs when a person who should be allowed access is 
			denied access. The false rejection rate (FRR)
          is a measure of the probability that a false negative will occur.
      </li>
      <li>
       False acceptance (or false positive) occurs when a person who should be denied access is 
			allowed access. The false acceptance rate (FAR)
          is a measure of the probability that a false positive will occur. False positives are more serious than false negatives
          and represent a security breach because unauthorized persons are allowed access.
      </li>
      <li>
       A crossover error rate, also called the equal error rate, is the point at which the number of false positives matches
          the number of false negatives in a biometric system. It is advisable 
			to select the system with the lowest crossover error rate within your
          budget.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

Biometric information can be collected for each of the following:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Method
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Fingerprints
    </td>
    <td>
     Fingerprints are made up of patterns of ridges and valleys. Fingerprint scanners analyze these patterns
      and convert them into a numerical format that can be stored for future comparison.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Retina
    </td>
    <td>
     A retina is the back portion of the eye that is sensitive to light. Numerous capillaries move blood to the
      retina and these capillaries create a unique pattern. A retinal scanner shines infrared light into an eye and measures the
      amount of reflection. The vessels in the retina absorb infrared light so 
		that the reflection pattern can be stored for future
      identification.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Iris
    </td>
    <td>
     The iris is the colorful portion of the eye around the pupil. Infrared light lights up the iris, and the
      scanner captures images of its unique patterns.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Facial
    </td>
    <td>
     Facial scanning creates a map of 80 points on an individual’s face. The distances measured on this map
      can be used to identify the person in the future. Measurements could include the distance between eyes, the shape of a nose,
      the size of the cheekbones, etc.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Voice
    </td>
    <td>
     Voice recognition systems analyzes a person’s voice for things like pitch, intensity, and cadence.
      These systems can be text dependent or text independent. Text-dependent authentication requires a specific phrase to be
      spoken. This could be a pre-determined phrase, or it could be randomly generated. Text-independent authentication uses any
      speech content.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Vein
    </td>
    <td>
     Vein recognition scanners use infrared light to determine the vein pattern in your palm. Like a fingerprint, this pattern
        differs from one person to the next and does not change. The scanner converts the collected data into a code that 
		is encrypted
        and assigned to you. The benefits of vein biometrics are:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Veins are internal so they cannot be altered or covered as easily as hands or a face could be.
      </li>
      <li>
       Because a palm is larger than an eye or a finger, more data points can be collected. 
			This provides a higher rate of
          accuracy.
      </li>
      <li>
       Because veins are internal, they are harder to replicate and can only be captured in close proximity.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Gait
    </td>
    <td>
     Gait recognition analyzes the way that people walk. Each person has a unique way of walking. Several factors determine your
        gait, including:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Height, weight, and body proportions
      </li>
      <li>
       Age
      </li>
      <li>
       Health (diseases or disorders)
      </li>
      <li>
       Personality or emotions
      </li>
     </ul>
     When analyzing gait, the following are measured:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Stride
      </li>
      <li>
       Step
      </li>
      <li>
       Speed
      </li>
      <li>
       Hip and foot angle
      </li>
      <li>
       Cadence
      </li>
     </ul>
     Data is gathered using sensors, cameras, or wearable devices. The gait recognition system creates a digital signature
        that can be stored or compared to existing data. Gait recognition systems are still fairly new and, as with most biometric
        systems, should not be used as a stand-alone method of identification.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

If you are considering implementing biometrics, keep in mind the following:

<ul>
   <li>
    Some biometric factors are unique. This is true even between identical twins.
   </li>
   <li>
    When a biometric is used by itself, it is no more secure than a strong password. A single successful attack can subvert a
    biometric in much the same way that a single successful attack can subvert a password.
   </li>
   <li>
    Biometric attacks need not be physically harmful (such as cutting off a finger) but can include a wide variety of
    realistic reproductions that fool the biometric reader device.
   </li>
   <li>
    The most important consideration for a biometric device is accuracy.
   </li>
   <li>
    When a biometric device has its sensitivity set too high, it can result in numerous false-negative rejections where
    authorized users are not recognized.
   </li>
   <li>
    To use a biometric, new users must go through a physical enrollment process that is more complex and time consuming than
    the enrollment process for a password-only system.
   </li>
   <li>
    Biometric enrollment requires new users to prove their identity to a user administrator. The new user must then provide the
    first example of their biometric to a reader device under the supervision of the user administrator. This first example is
    digitized and stored as a reference template. All future uses of the biometric 
	compare the contemporary biometric sample offered with the historically recorded template.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Authentication Technologies

The following chart reviews several technologies that can be used for multifactor authentication:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Technology
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Short Message Service (SMS)
    </td>
    <td>
     Short Message Service (SMS) authentication uses SMS messaging to send a one-time code or password to a known
      user of an account in order to verify their identity. This requirement can be requested at every login, 
		at every time the user signs into
      a new device or browser, or at timed intervals.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Phone Call
    </td>
    <td>
     Similar to SMS, the user receives a phone call with the one-time code or password.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Authentication Applications
    </td>
    <td>
     Authentication applications are third-party tools that organizations use to authenticate their users, especially those
        working remotely. An authenticator app, typically installed on a smartphone, 
		provides a new six-to-eight digit code every 30
        seconds. This passcode, along with your username and password, provides additional verification that you are who you say
        you are. Another similar method that you may have used is a one-time password. Some banks use this method to allow ATM
        withdrawals without using a debit card. An application or token creates a one-time password. This password only works
        for a single login. After that, the password expires. There are two different methods for creating one-time passwords:
     <ul>
      <li>
       HMAC-based one-time password (HOTP): This type of one-time
          password uses a mathematical algorithm to create a new password based on the previous password that was generated.
      </li>
      <li>
       Time-based one-time password (TOTP): This one-time password is generated by sending a shared secret key and
          the current time through an algorithm. This generated password is valid for only a short period, typically thirty
          seconds. After that, a new one-time password is generated using the same method.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Push Notifications
    </td>
    <td>
     Push notifications can also be used to grant access to an account. Whenever you log into your account,
      you enter your username. But instead of a password, you receive an access request notification on your mobile device.
      You can choose to either approve or decline this request.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
