---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 8.1 Wireless Overview
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Which device broadcasts information and data over radio waves?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are the two modes of wireless network configuration?
    </li>
    <li>
     Where is a Wireless LAN Controller (WLC) installed?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Identify the types of wireless network hardware.
    </li>
    <li>
     Configure a wireless connection.
    </li>
   </ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Service set identifier
      <br>
      (SSID)
     </td>
     <td>
      A unique name that identifies a wireless network.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Wireless access point
      <br>
      (WAP)
     </td>
     <td>
      A wireless access point broadcasts information and data over radio waves.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Wireless interface
     </td>
     <td>
      The interface in a device, such as a laptop or smart phone, that connects to the wireless access
          point.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      TestOut Security Pro
     </td>
     <td>
      2.2 Harden Network Devices
      <blockquote>
       2.2.2 Configure and Access a Wireless Network
       <br>
       2.2.4 Harden a Wireless Network
      </blockquote>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
     </td>
     <td>
      3.4 Given a scenario, install and configure wireless security settings.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Installation considerations
        <ul>
         <li>
          Site surveys
         </li>
         <li>
          Heat maps
         </li>
         <li>
          WiFi analyzers
         </li>
         <li>
          Channel overlays
         </li>
         <li>
          Wireless access point
         </li>
         <li>
          (WAP) placement
         </li>
         <li>
          Controller and access point security
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       3.5 Given a scenario, implement secure mobile solutions.
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Connection methods and receivers
        <ul>
         <li>
          WiFi
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Enforcement and monitoring of:
        <ul>
         <li>
          WiFi direct/ad hoc
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 8.1.1 Wireless Networking Overview

### Wireless Networking Overview 00:00-00:45

Wireless networking is now commonplace in most network environments. In fact, a lot of networks use it as the primary connection method. Chances are you probably have a wireless network in your home. In fact, setting up a residential wireless network at home is pretty simple. Even setting up the SSID broadcast and encryption protocol on the access point is very straightforward.

In an enterprise environment, setting up a wireless network isn't as simple. This is because there are additional considerations that need to be taken into account in an enterprise environment. But before we discuss the impact of wireless devices in an enterprise network, let's highlight a couple of things with consumer-grade home routers.

### SOHO Wireless 00:45-01:12

You probably only have a single wireless access point at home. This device is actually three devices in one: a router, a switch, and a wireless access point.

The router connects your home local area network to the ISP's network. The switch allows you to connect several network devices together using an Ethernet cable, most likely unshielded twisted pair. The wireless access point allows for wireless connections to the local area network.

### Enterprise Wireless 01:12-02:05

An enterprise wireless network is different from a home wireless network in at least three different ways. First, instead of having a single all-in-one device, equipment is typically separated into distinct components that perform a single function. For example, a router only performs routing operations, a switch only performs switching operations, and a wireless access point only acts as a bridge between the wireless and wired network.

Second, enterprises need to support many more devices and cover a much larger area than home networks. Some enterprises need to support thousands of clients and cover entire business complexes; for example, many universities have wireless connectivity on the entire campus.

And third, devices need to be able to move around the enterprise without any connection troubles. The transition between different access points needs to be seamless.

### Access Points 02:05-03:09

In an enterprise network, this is done by using multiple access points, which are scattered throughout the campus to provide adequate coverage. The access points will typically all connect to the same local area network through a switch.

Now, each of these access points can only support a limited number of clients, so having multiple access points also allows each access point to share the client load. For example, if this switch has the maximum number of connections, new wireless devices that require network access will be connected to this access point, here, instead. This is possible because the range of the access points here overlap, which actually brings up another important point: overlapping signals can cause interference.

It's also possible for devices to constantly bounce between connecting to this AP and this AP, and so on. This could be really frustrating. In addition, if any of these configuration settings on either of these APs is different, then this can cause connection issues, and the more APs you add to a network, the more devices you need to manage.

### Wireless LAN Controller (WLC) 03:09-03:59

As you can see, a wireless network can quickly become a management nightmare. Luckily, enterprise networks use a device called a wireless LAN controller (WLC) that manages all the access points in a network. The typical enterprise wireless controller will be in a networking closet and connected to a switch. The controller can then communicate with and manage each of these APs.

In addition to managing configuration settings, the controller can also manage client connections and manage AP loads. In essence, a wireless controller allows multiple APs to work together as a single system, instead of each working in isolation.

It's important to know that a wireless controller by itself doesn't actually produce any type of wireless signal--that's the job of the AP. The controller only manages the APs.

### LWAP 03:59-04:27

Another type of wireless device is known as a light-weight access point, or LWAP.

LWAPs are used in conjunction with a wireless controller. LWAPs contain very little embedded intelligence or technology. They are connected to the wired network via a network cable and are able to communicate directly with the WLC, which handles things like client connections, authentication, propagating configurations, et cetera.

### Wireless Technologies 04:27-05:31

Let's next look at the two ways a wireless network can be configured. The first one is ad hoc mode.

In ad hoc mode, also called peer-to-peer mode or wireless mesh mode, there is no WAP or WLC. Instead, two or more wireless devices connect directly with each other to send and receive information. The more devices that connect, the more individual connections that are made. And you can see where the term wireless mesh comes from when you see all these individual connections.

The second mode is called infrastructure mode. In infrastructure mode, a workstation communicates with a notebook by sending the signal to the WAP which transfers it to the notebook system. The infrastructure mode is more scalable than ad hoc mode. The infrastructure mode also makes it easy to connect the wireless network to a wired network. It is not easy to do that with an ad hoc implementation.

Once you establish the wireless connection between the network interface card and the WAP, the wireless network operates similar to traditional wired Ethernet networks.

### Summary 05:31-06:00

Now, it's important to know that wireless networks use what's called an unbounded medium to communicate. That is, they send signals in all directions that can be picked up by any device in range—"they aren't bounded by insulated wires like wired networks. Because of this, wireless networks are inherently less secure than a bounded, wired network, so you need to take extra precautions when securing a wireless network.

## 8.1.2 Wireless Installation

### Wireless Installation 00:00-00:26

When you set up a wireless network, you can't just put up a bunch of wireless access points and call it a day. There are different installation considerations you'll need to look at before installing your devices. The first step is to understand and define the usage needs of your wireless network. Once you know them, it's time to conduct a site survey. In this lesson, we're going to discuss the site survey process.

### Site Surveys 00:26-01:30

A site survey ensures that the wireless network will perform as desired. It examines the physical layout and barriers of the location, which lets you determine where to install the access points. Multiple site surveys will be completed during the installation process.

There are three different types of site surveys performed at different times in the installation process: passive surveys, active surveys, and predictive surveys. If a survey isn't conducted properly, your network won't perform, and that will cost a lot more time and money than performing surveys correctly.

To conduct a survey, you'll need to use a Wi-Fi analyzer. A dedicated Wi-Fi analyzer tool can provide an in-depth look at the wireless signals in the area being tested. There are also several Wi-Fi analyzers programs you can run from a laptop, tablet, or smartphone.

Before you perform a survey, you need a diagram or map of your location. It's important to make sure that the map is properly scaled and labeled so you can get a proper reading. Many analyzer tools allow you to import the map so you can overlay the survey results.

### Passive Survey 01:30-02:18

The initial survey is a passive survey. This survey is performed without the analyzer connecting to any specific wireless access point. It's just in a listen-only mode. Temporary WAPs are placed, and the surveyor walks around with the analyzer to measure signal strength and interference levels.

Once the passive survey has been completed, a heat map is generated. A heat map shows Wi-Fi signal strength. They usually show strong signals in green, medium levels in yellow, and weak spots in red.

You may need to perform multiple passive surveys to determine the best placement for your access points. You also need to make sure that the WAPs are installed in secure locations so people can't physically access them. Once you've figured out where to install the WAPs and installed them, you should conduct an active survey.

### Active Survey 02:18-02:46

During an active survey, you'll first connect the Wi-Fi analyzer to the access points to measure the network strength and look for any weak spots. Then you'll walk through the entire location again to thoroughly test every inch. You can also generate heat maps again to visually represent problem areas.

You also need to check for channel overlapping. If neighboring access points are set to overlapping channels, you'll end up dealing with performance issues and network drops as devices move between the different WAPs.

### Predictive Survey 02:46-03:06

The last type of site survey is a predictive survey. Predictive surveys use software programs to load the building blueprints and determines where to install the WAPs. This can be done remotely and doesn't require someone to walk through the location to test everything. A predictive survey isn't as precise as a passive or active survey, but it can cost less and take less time.

### Summary 03:06-03:26

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about the process of installing a wireless network. Before we can do anything, we need to know the usage needs of the network. Then you can perform passive, active, and predictive site surveys to determine how to install your WAPs.

## 8.1.3 Wireless Networking Facts

Wireless networking is commonplace, both in home and business environments.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Wireless network hardware
   </li>
   <li>
    Wireless network configuration
   </li>
   <li>
    Wireless antenna types
   </li>
  </ul>

### Wireless Network Hardware

The following table describes hardware used in wireless networks:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Wireless Network Hardware
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Wireless access point (WAP)
     </td>
     <td>
      A wireless access point broadcasts information and data over radio waves.
      <br>
      <ul>
       <li>
        A wireless access point functions as a wireless hub.
       </li>
       <li>
        The wireless access point may provide a connection to a physical wired network.
       </li>
       <li>
        The two classes of wireless access points are fat and thin.
        <ul>
         <li>
          Fat access points have everything necessary to manage wireless clients and broadcast the network. Fat access
              points are standalone devices.
         </li>
         <li>
          Thin access points are basically a radio and antenna. Thin access points can broadcast the network, but require
              another system to manage clients and the network. Thin access points are referred to as controller-based
              devices.
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        A WAP uses an service set identifier (SSID) that associates a name with a wireless network. This makes it easier
            for users to connect wirelessly.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Wireless interface
     </td>
     <td>
      The wireless interface in a device, such as a laptop or smart phone, connects to the wireless access
          point.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Wireless bridge
     </td>
     <td>
      A wireless bridge connects two wireless networks together.
      <br>
      <ul>
       <li>
        The bridge is typically created using a wired connection between the two access points.
       </li>
       <li>
        A bridge can be implemented wirelessly using a wireless distribution system (WDS).
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Wireless LAN controller
      <br>
      (WLC)
     </td>
     <td>
      A Wireless LAN controller is used in a enterprise environment to manage multiple access points. The
          WLC is placed in the networking closet and connected to a switch. The controller is able to communicate with and manage
          the wireless access points.
      <p>
       The WLC is also able to manage client connects and access point loads. This allows the WAPs to operate and work
          together as a single system instead of each device working in isolation.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Lightweight access point
      <br>
      (LWAP)
     </td>
     <td>
      Lightweight access points are used in conjunction with the wireless controller.
      <ul>
       <li>
        LWAPs contain very little technology and rely on the WLC to handle everything including client connections,
            authentication, updating configurations, etc.
       </li>
       <li>
        LWAP forwards frames to the WLC to make the decision to either drop the packet or forward it. If the packet is to
            be forwarded, the WLC sends it to the applicable LWAP to which the destination device is connected and then that WLC
            sends the packet to the destination.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

In a small office or residential location, a Small Office Home Office (SOHO) wireless router is often used. These devices are three different devices in one:

<ul>
   <li>
    A router function connects the internal LAN to the internet.
   </li>
   <li>
    A switch portion connects the internal wired LAN devices together.
   </li>
   <li>
    An access point portion allows the internal wireless devices to connect to the network.
   </li>
  </ul>

In a enterprise environment, these functions are separated into individual devices that are much more powerful and robust.

### Wireless Network Configuration

There are two configuration modes for a wireless network:

<ul>
   <li>
    Ad hoc, also referred to as peer-to-peer, provides wireless communication without a wireless access point. The wireless
      interfaces of the communicating devices send and receive radio signals directly with each other.
   </li>
   <li>
    Infrastructure mode uses a wireless access point that acts similarly to a hub or switch in a wired network. The
      infrastructure implementation:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Is more scalable than an ad hoc implementation.
     </li>
     <li>
      Can also connect the wireless device to a wired network.
     </li>
     <li>
      Can be used to create a guest network so external users can connect to the internet without giving access for the
        internal network.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
  </ul>

### Wireless Antenna Types

Wireless antennas are a key component of a Wi-Fi network. Antennas fulfill two key roles:

<ul>
   <li>
    Absorbing incoming radio signals
   </li>
   <li>
    Radiating outgoing radio signals
   </li>
  </ul>

Some wireless antennas may be mounted externally to the wireless device. Others may be embedded within the device itself. The range of a wireless antenna depends upon its power gain , a numeric measure in decibels (dBi) of an antenna's maximum radiation power relative to a standard reference antenna. The higher the gain, the more powerful the antenna and the longer the range it can support. Commonly used wireless antennas can be categorized as follows.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Antenna Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Normal-gain
     </td>
     <td>
      A normal-gain antenna usually has a gain rating between 2 and 9 dBi.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      High-gain
     </td>
     <td>
      A high-gain antenna usually has a gain rating of 12 dBi or higher.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Omnidirectional
     </td>
     <td>
      An omnidirectional antenna radiates and absorbs signals equally in every direction around the
          antenna. Because it spreads its gain in a 360 degree pattern, the overall range of an omnidirectional antenna is
          typically much less than that of a directional antenna.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Directional
     </td>
     <td>
      A directional antenna focuses its radiation and absorption of signals in a specific direction. Some
          directional antennae allow you to vary the beam from relatively wide to very narrow. The narrower the beam, the higher
          the gain and the longer the range.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Parabolic
     </td>
     <td>
      A parabolic antenna uses a parabolic-shaped reflector dish. It is highly directional, concentrating
          the radio waves transmitted from the sender into a very narrow beam. When the receiver uses a parabolic antenna, it can
          receive a signal only from one specific direction. It supports very high-gain radio signals that can be transmitted over
          long distances, but it requires a clear line of sight (LOS) between the sender and the receiver.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Omnidirectional
      <br>
      normal-gain
     </td>
     <td>
      Omnidirectional, normal-gain antennae are the most common type of antennae used in wireless equipment
          because they work reasonably well in a variety of situations.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 8.1.4 Configuring a Wireless Connection

### Configuring a Wireless Connection 00:00-00:20

Let's take a look at how to configure and manage Wi-Fi connections on a Windows system. We're using a Windows 10 system here, but the concepts you learn in this demo will translate to almost every version of Windows in addition to other operating systems, such as Linux or macOS.

### Verify a Wireless Adapter 00:20-00:47

Most Wi-Fi adapters with Windows automatically install without you having to install drivers. To check if you have a Wi-Fi adapter on your computer, you bring your mouse down to the network icon. Click and turn on your Wi-Fi if it isn't turned on already. You should see several Wi-Fi networks to connect to if you have a wireless network broadcasting in your area. If you don't see anything related to Wi-Fi after you click the network icon, you may not have a wireless adapter, or the driver may not be properly installed.

### View Available Networks 00:47-01:10

All right. Now that we know our adapter is working properly, let's connect to a Wi-Fi network. During the setup of a wireless network, users can name the network. You'll see there's also a network called Hidden Network. It's listed in the wireless network options when a network isn't broadcasting its SSID. The name of the network or SSID has to be entered manually along with the network's password.

### Connect to a Network 01:10-02:31

We want to connect to this network, Stargate Command. Let's click it. This option allows us to connect to the Wi-Fi network automatically whenever we're in range. It also lets you to connect automatically. If this was a public or unsecure network, we might not want to select this option.

When we click Connect, we're asked to provide the security key. You might notice that we aren't asked to select a security type or encryption type here. This is because modern Wi-Fi networks and systems are able to automatically negotiate the authentication and encryption type used by the wireless network. This is all done behind the scenes, so we don't have to worry about it.

However, if you want to manually select the security type, you can do that using the New Connection wizard in the Network and Sharing Center.

Okay, let's go ahead and enter the security key. Remember, these are case-sensitive, so keep that in mind when entering one. After entering the key, we click Next. When we do, we're presented with this notification.

We're essentially being asked whether or not we trust this network enough that we want to allow other computers to see us. With networks that you absolutely one hundred percent know are secure, you can click Yes. If there's any doubt in your mind about the security of a Wi-Fi network, click No. Because this is a friend's network, I'm not certain that it's a hundred percent safe, so I'm going to click No. If I've entered the correct security key, we'll authenticate and connect to the network.

### Test a Connection 02:31-03:16

Let's go ahead and test our internet connection by doing a quick ping of google.com. We get a reply, so we know we have internet access. We can also do an ipconfig command to see some additional information about our IP address, default gateway, etc. Another way to see the properties of our connection is to click the Wi-Fi icon, select the network we're connected to, and click Properties.

You can select Public or Private profile, which was a part of the previous Yes and No question while connecting to the network. We can also see the SSID, the wireless protocol being used, the security type, the network band and channel, wireless interface card, MAC address, all that kind of stuff. Let's go back.

### Manage Saved Networks 03:16-03:57

If you remember, we can manage all our saved networks here. Before, this list was empty. But since we connected to the Stargate Command network, it's displayed here. And if we wanted to, we could forget this network. This is handy if you accidently connected to a network that you really don't want to be connected to. Or, if you accidently entered a wrong security key and that was saved, you could forget the network and attempt to reconnect.

Let's go ahead and forget this network. Notice we're disconnected from the Wi-Fi network. If we run an ipconfig command, we can see we no longer have an IP address, and we can no longer ping google.com.

### Use the New Connection Wizard 03:57-05:34

Let's connect to the network again, but this time, let's do it using the New Connection wizard. We'll open the Network and Sharing Center, click Set up a new connection or network, and select Manually connect to a wireless network.

We already know the network name, Stargate Command. We know that the security type is WPA2-Personal, which automatically selects AES encryption, and we know the security key.

Notice this checkbox, Hide characters. When this is unchecked, anything I type in the security key box is displayed in the clear. This option can be useful if you have a really complex security key or if you're having troubles authenticating and you want to make sure the key is entered properly. But it also means anyone near me could copy the key or take a quick photo of my screen, so be very careful with this option. I'm going to go ahead and select this checkbox so that the key is hidden. This is a good default practice.

I want to start this connection automatically. And remember, if this SSID was hidden, I would want to select this option. Right now, the SSID is being broadcasted, so I won't. Click Next. And I've successfully added the wireless network and automatically connected to it. I can verify that by clicking the Wi-Fi connection here, which opens the Wi-Fi status window.

We can see I have internet access. It tells me how long I've been connected. I can see details about the signal quality here. If I click Wireless Properties and go to the Security tab, I can change the security and encryption type as well as the key if I need to.

### Summary 05:34-05:44

That's it for this demo. We looked at configuring and managing Wi-Fi connections on a Windows 10 system.
