---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 3.3 Environmental Controls
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What impact can high temperatures have on computer equipment?
- What measures can be taken to reduce temperatures in a server room?
- What temperature should be maintained for computer equipment to run efficiently?
- What are hot and cold aisles and how can they be used to maintain a safe temperature in the server room?
- What is fire suppression? What fire suppression methods can be used in a server room?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Secure environmental systems.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Infrastructure
    </td>
    <td>
     Infrastructure refers to the systems that support the site. Infrastructure components include AC, power,
        heating, ventilation, air conditioning systems (HVAC), gas, and water.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cold aisle
    </td>
    <td>
     A cold aisle is created by having the front of the equipment face toward the center of the aisle.
        Typically, cold aisles face air conditioner output ducts.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hot aisle
    </td>
    <td>
     Hot aisles have the back of the equipment face the aisle. Typically hot aisles face air conditioner
        return ducts.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Electro-magnetic interference (EMI)
    </td>
    <td>
     Electro-magnetic interference is caused by noise between the hot wire and the ground or neutral
        wires in a circuit. This burst of energy is known as an electromagnetic pulse (EMP.) It can disrupt the signal in a data
        cable.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.0 Physical and Network Security
     <p>
      2.1 Harden Physical Access
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     2.7. Explain the importance of physical security controls.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Secure areas
       <ul>
        <li>
         Air gap
        </li>
        <li>
         Vault
        </li>
        <li>
         Safe
        </li>
        <li>
         Hot aisle
        </li>
        <li>
         Cold aisle
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Fire suppression
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 3.3.1 Environmental Controls

## 3.3.2 Securing Environmental Systems

### Securing Environmental Systems 00:00-00:22

As a security professional, it's extremely important that your environmental monitoring systems are just as secure as the rest of your network. If an attacker comprimises your environmental monitoring systems, they could potentially destroy all your server systems by allowing them to overheat.

### Equipment Placement 00:22-00:46

The most basic way to keep your environmental systems safe is to place them in a secure area.

This means keeping the equipment room locked and only allowing access to people who have the proper credentials. In addition, keeping systems behind locked cabinets or installing special plates over control consoles can help to prevent unauthorized people from accessing the panel and changing settings.

### Limited Access 00:46-01:24

The second way to secure your systems is to strictly limit access into the locked equipment room.

An electronic reader with access logs should be used for all access doors. You may also want to install CCTV cameras inside the server room. They allow you to monitor whether someone in the room is handling something that they should not.

Remote access can help to limit access to the equipment itself in addition to limiting users' access levels. However, remote access opens up new vulnerabilities, so If you use a network-based monitoring system, consider segmenting it from the regular network using a VLAN.

### Ongoing Maintenance 01:24-01:48

Well-kept equipment and well-trained employees are essential to maintaining secure systems. Be sure to keep smart environmental control systems up to date with the latest firmware and software. Keep all maintenance staff up to date on relevant trainings and certifications so that they're prepared to optimize and secure the systems in whatever circumstance you find yourselves in.

### Secure Disposal 01:48-02:03

Finally, when disposing or repurposing environmental systems, be sure to securely remove any information that's stored in the equipment. You want to prevent unauthorized persons from accessing the information that's kept in these devices.

### Summary 02:03-02:19

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we discussed securing our environmental systems through equipment placement, limited access, ongoing maintenance, and secure disposal of assets.

## 3.3.3 Environmental Control Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Environmental considerations
- Environmental monitoring

### Environmental Considerations

Computer systems are sensitive to environmental conditions. Environmental controls to protect computer systems include:

- Cool temperatures to protect hardware from being damaged by overheating.
- Humidity control to keep humidity above 50% to avoid electric shock.
- Moisture detectors to identify the presence of water and provide early alerts to prevent water/flood damage from water pipes and sprinklers.
- Fire suppression controls to prevent damage from heat and smoke.

Infrastructure refers to the systems that support the site. Infrastructure components include electrical power, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems (HVAC), gas, and water.

### Environmental Monitoring

Environmental conditions have a substantial impact on the reliability and life span of IT equipment. Environmental monitoring should be implemented in server rooms and data centers to ensure the proper function of environmental controls. The goal of environmental monitoring is to maintain environmental conditions and keep them as stable as possible.

The following table addresses various environmental concerns along with a description and possible management solutions.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Environmental Concern
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Electro-magnetic interference (EMI)
    </td>
    <td>
     Electro-magnetic interference is caused by noise between the hot wire and the ground or neutral wires
        in a circuit. This burst of energy is known as an electromagnetic pulse (EMP.) It can disrupt the signal in a data cable.
        Common causes of EMI are:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Motors
      </li>
      <li>
       Heavy machinery
      </li>
      <li>
       Lights
      </li>
      <li>
       Electrical systems (for example, a computer system)
      </li>
     </ul>
     EMI shielding is the process of protecting computer components from interference to prevent transmission problems and
        security concerns, such as eavesdropping. A Faraday cage or a Faraday bag can be used to protect a device from EMP. The
        Faraday cage or bag is made of special metallic materials that can shield devices such as cell phones, tablets, computers,
        and servers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Temperature
    </td>
    <td>
     Heat reduces the life span and reliability of computer equipment.Keep in mind the following about
        temperature:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Fans and cooling systems on users' desktop, laptop, and notebook computers are usually adequate to keep those
          types of equipment sufficiently cool.
      </li>
      <li>
       Server rooms require special cooling systems due to the high concentration of equipment.
      </li>
      <li>
       The optimum temperature for computer equipment is 68 degrees Fahrenheit (20 Celsius).
      </li>
      <li>
       There is a variety of environment sensors and software available to monitor the temperature in server rooms and data
          centers.
      </li>
      <li>
       Environmental sensors and software can also help you identify hot spots.
      </li>
      <li>
       Temperature sensors are generally located one-half to two feet above the floor and five to six feet above the
          floor throughout the room. A variation of more than 12 degrees between low-mounted and high-mounted sensors indicates a
          problem.
      </li>
     </ul>
     A well-maintained HVAC system is important for employee comfort and the protection of equipment.
     <ul>
      <li>
       HVAC controls the temperature and humidity of a building.
      </li>
      <li>
       HVAC keeps temperatures cool for computer systems.
      </li>
      <li>
       Computer systems and server rooms should be centrally located and have separate ducting for better controls.
      </li>
      <li>
       Computer rooms/server rooms require full-time environmental controls.
      </li>
     </ul>
     Recommendations for HVAC systems include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Use positive pressure systems. Positive pressure systems protect the air quality in the facility by causing air to be
          forced out through doors, windows, and other openings. Negative pressure systems draw air in, potentially bringing in
          airborne particles such as dust, smoke from a fire, or contamination from a chemical leak. Positive pressure systems are
          more energy effective.
      </li>
      <li>
       Protect filtered air intakes. The air intakes are the source of air for the positive pressure system. Air intakes can
          be a target of sabotage or contaminated by toxic chemicals if an incident occurs in the surrounding area.
      </li>
      <li>
       For electronic components, keep the temperature between 70 and 74 degrees and humidity between 40% and 65%.
      </li>
      <li>
       Ensure that appropriate personnel has access to shut-off valves for the HVAC system in the event of an
          emergency.
      </li>
     </ul>
     Use hot and cold aisles to ensure proper cooling. A cold aisle is created by having the front of the equipment
        face toward the center of the aisle. Hot aisles have the back of the equipment face the aisle. Air from the cooling system
        is forced into the cool aisles from underneath and exhausted through the hot aisles overhead. Typically, cold aisles face
        air conditioner output ducts and hot aisles face air conditioner return ducts. Best practices for hot aisle/cold aisle
        containment include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Install internal fans to bring air into, or exhaust air out of, individual units to act with the overall pattern of
          airflow in the center.
      </li>
      <li>
       Locate devices with side or top exhausts in their own part of the datacenter.
      </li>
      <li>
       Raise the floor 1.5 feet so that air being pushed by air conditioning equipment can pass through.
      </li>
      <li>
       Install automatic doors in the data center.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Humidity
    </td>
    <td>
     Humidity is an important consideration for server rooms.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Humidity should be kept within a range of 40 to 65 percent. Too much humidity results in condensation. Too little
          humidity results in electrostatic discharge (ESD). Depending on the naturally occurring humidity level of your area and
          the season, you may have to add or decrease humidity.
      </li>
      <li>
       Avoid large, rapid changes in humidity. Keeping a narrow range of temperature in the computer room will help to avoid
          condensation.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Airflow
    </td>
    <td>
     Airflow is an important factor in controlling temperature. Be aware that:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Fans are a critical component in preventing hot spots in a computer room. There are two types of fans, fans inside
          the computer equipment and room fans, which circulate air in the room.
      </li>
      <li>
       The air exchange rate for a computer room is much higher than for an office area. An office area needs approximately
          two air changes per hour. A server room needs between 20 and 30 air changes per hour.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Power Conditions
    </td>
    <td>
     Here is a list of power conditions that you should be aware of:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A surge or spike in power is a sudden rise in voltage. It can be caused by a lightning strike; a power plant coming
          online or going off-line; or even equipment inside the facility.
      </li>
      <li>
       A sag or dip in power is a reduction in voltage for a short period of time (up to as long as a few seconds). Sources
          of sags or dips include chained power strips, faulty wiring, sudden power draws (such as when equipment is first turned
          on), and large inductive sources, such as an electric motor.
      </li>
      <li>
       A brownout is a reduction in voltage that lasts longer than a few seconds. A brownout is generally caused at the
          utility company during times of high-power usage. The ANSI standard defines a brownout as an 8% drop between the power
          source and the voltage meter or a 3.5% drop between the voltage meter and the wall outlet.
      </li>
      <li>
       A blackout is a complete power failure. A blackout can have a variety of sources, such as downed power lines or
          failed transformers.
      </li>
      <li>
       A fault is a momentary power outage that can have a variety of sources.
      </li>
      <li>
       A transient is a fluctuation caused by line noise or disturbance.
      </li>
     </ul>
     Power systems can help keep electrical service constant. The following types of protection are available to improve
        and protect your equipment against AC power issues:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Surge protectors protect against spikes that damage components. Many power strips have a built-in surge
          protector.
      </li>
      <li>
       Uninterruptible Power Supplies (UPS) protect against under-voltage conditions of short duration (depending on battery
          life, 30 minutes or more). Most UPS systems include a line conditioner and a surge protector.
      </li>
      <li>
       A redundant power source can ensure constant power. An example of a redundant power source is a backup generator or
          power from a secondary source in case the primary source fails. Backup generators require fuel to operate and can provide power
          to critical systems until the fuel is consumed.
      </li>
      <li>
       Line conditioners, also known as power conditioners, can improve the quality of the power by providing filters to
          remove noise, temporary voltage regulators, and surge protectors.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Water or Gas
    </td>
    <td>
     Recommendations for water and gas focus on the ability to turn them off in the event of a broken pipe,
        fire, or another type of emergency. These recommendations are:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Identify the location of a master shut-off valve.
      </li>
      <li>
       Identify the location of any secondary shut-off valves. Using secondary shutoff valves minimizes the impact of the
          service loss.
      </li>
      <li>
       Ensure that the shut-off valves work.
      </li>
      <li>
       Mark shut-off valves to increase visibility.
      </li>
      <li>
       Ensure that appropriate personnel has access to shut-off values for water and gas systems.
      </li>
      <li>
       Secure shut-off valves from general access.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 3.3.4 Fire Protection Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Fire suppression
- Fire suppression methods
- Fire extinguishers
- Fire response

### Fire Suppression

A fire can be devastating to an organization. In a place like a server room, where rows of equipment are running, the risk is even higher. Fire suppression refers to the efforts made to reduce the overall impact of a fire should one start. Before looking at specific suppression methods, consider how a fire occurs. Fire requires these components:

- Something to burn or combust. This could be fuel or it could be a combustible material.
- Oxygen in order to maintain the level of combustion.
- Enough heat to raise the material to an ignitable temperature.
- The chemical reaction that occurs as the oxygen and the fuel ignite.

Coming up with a way to starve a fire of one of these things, will suppress a fire.

### Fire Suppression Methods

Two primary fire suppression systems include:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Portable
    </td>
    <td>
     Portable systems are fire extinguishers that can be used to suppress small fires. When using a portable
        fire extinguisher, be aware of the following facts:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A pin is inserted in the handle of most fire extinguishers to prevent the extinguisher from being accidentally
          triggered. Remove the pin to use the fire extinguisher.
      </li>
      <li>
       The PASS method (Pull, Aim, Squeeze, and Sweep) is the best method to administer the fire suppressant. Aim toward the
          base of the fire.
      </li>
      <li>
       Fire extinguishers usually have a limited effective range of 3–8 feet.
      </li>
      <li>
       Fires spread quickly. In most cases, you will be unable to control a fire with only a portable system.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Fixed
    </td>
    <td>
     A fixed system is part of a building and typically combines fire detectors with fire-suppression
        technology. Fixed fire suppression systems usually use water or gas to extinguish fire.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Deluge sprinklers have open sprinklers. The pipes are dry until the fire alarm causes the deluge valve to open and
          send water to all the sprinklers.
      </li>
      <li>
       Wet pipe sprinklers contain pressurized water that is released when initiated by a heat-sensitive device. Wet pipe
          systems respond to fire threats more quickly than deluge systems.
      </li>
     </ul>
     Be aware that a fixed system might only slow down a fire, but it gives you more time to evacuate. It might be
        incapable of extinguishing a fire.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

Extinguishing agents used to suppress fire include:

<ul>
   <li>
    Water to remove the heat. Water can cause damage to computer equipment, but it is harmless to people.
   </li>
   <li>
    Gas to displace oxygen. When extinguishing a fire around critical computer equipment, the best option is to eliminate
      oxygen because that would have the least damaging effect.
    <ul>
     <li>
      Displacing oxygen typically involves a gas (such as CO2 and Halon) that does not leave a damaging residue.
     </li>
     <li>
      Gas systems do not work well in an open environment and special ventilation may be required.
     </li>
     <li>
      Use of gas suppression requires that you evacuate the room immediately; removal of oxygen can suffocate someone in the
        room.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Dry chemicals (such as sodium bicarbonate), wet chemicals, and foam can be used to extinguish fuel from burning, but will
      leave a residue and cause damage to the computer equipment.
   </li>
  </ul>

### Fire Extinguishers

The type of fire extinguisher you select should be based on the type of fire that is likely to occur in the area. The following table lists various U.S. fire classes and the appropriate suppressant type.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Class
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Fuel Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Suppressant Type
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Class A
    </td>
    <td>
     Wood, paper, cloth, plastics
    </td>
    <td>
     Water or soda acid
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Class B
    </td>
    <td>
     Petroleum, oil, solvent, alcohol
    </td>
    <td>
     CO2 or FM200
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Class C
    </td>
    <td>
     Electrical equipment, circuits, wires
    </td>
    <td>
     Halon or CO2
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Class D
    </td>
    <td>
     Sodium, potassium
    </td>
    <td>
     Dry powders
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Class K
    </td>
    <td>
     Oil, solvents, electrical wires
    </td>
    <td>
     Halon, CO2, or soda acid
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Fire Response

Be aware of the following facts regarding responding to fire emergencies:

<ul>
   <li>
    When a fire occurs:
    <ul>
     <li>
      The first action is to ensure the safety of the people and evacuate the area.
     </li>
     <li>
      In most cases, you should not attempt to put out a fire yourself. Fires spread quickly and become out of control,
        placing you in danger.
     </li>
     <li>
      Never go back into a burning building to retrieve data or computer systems. Performing regular backups and storing
        media offsite before the emergency is the best way to protect valuable data.
     </li>
     <li>
      When exiting, face the fire. Do not turn from it; back away from it instead.
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    Education is key to proper response in the event of an emergency. Be sure to train employees:
    <ul>
     <li>
      Fire moves quickly and there is little time to waste to ensure safety and protect assets.
     </li>
     <li>
      They should always face the fire and back away from it.
     </li>
     <li>
      Specific actions to take based on the suppression method used
     </li>
    </ul>
   </li>
   <li>
    CO2 suppresses fire by eliminating oxygen. In addition to smothering fires, CO2 is toxic to humans. If you use CO2 to
      suppress a fire, you must evacuate the area and exhibit extreme caution.
   </li>
   <li>
    You should inspect fire extinguishers regularly for proper pressure.
   </li>
   <li>
    You should never reuse a fire extinguisher. It could have inadequate pressure, or the nozzle could become clogged. It is usually
      less expensive to simply purchase a new fire extinguisher.
   </li>
  </ul>
