---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 3.2 Device and Network Protection
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What security guidelines should you implement to protect servers within your organization?
- How can you ensure that a computer cannot be removed from a desk?
- What does a Protective Distribution System (PDS) do?
- What is a Faraday cage designed to do?
- How does fiber optic cabling protect your infrastructure?

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Demilitarized zone
     <br>
     (DMZ)
    </td>
    <td>
     A DMZ provides enhanced security by isolating your publicly accessible network from your privately
        accessible network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Air gap
    </td>
    <td>
     A security method that physically isolates a portion of the network (such as a computer, a server, or
        a small network of computers) from the internet or any other unsecured networks.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Faraday cage
    </td>
    <td>
     Faraday cages are designed to block all electromagnetic emissions.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.0 Physical and Network Security
     <p>
      2.1 Harden Physical Access
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     2.7. Explain the importance of physical security controls.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Locks
       <ul>
        <li>
         Biometrics
        </li>
        <li>
         Electronic
        </li>
        <li>
         Physical
        </li>
        <li>
         Cable locks
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Sensors
       <ul>
        <li>
         Motion detection
        </li>
        <li>
         Noise detection
        </li>
        <li>
         Proximity reader
        </li>
        <li>
         Moisture detection
        </li>
        <li>
         Cards
        </li>
        <li>
         Temperature
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Protected cable distribution
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 3.2.1 Hardware Security Guidelines

### Hardware Security Guidelines 00:00-00:19

It's extremely important to protect the hardware within your organization from being physically compromised.

If an attacker is able to gain physical access to a workstation, server, or networking device, they can do a ton of damage to a network.

### Door Locks 00:19-01:12

The most basic form of physical security is a locked door. I know we keep returning to this idea, but it really is that important, and you'd be surprised how often doors are left unlocked whether accidentally or for convenience.

For example, suppose a high-value asset, such as a server, laptop, or desktop computer was kept in an open area, like an unoccupied cubicle or an office. It would be very easy for someone to walk into the workspace, pick up the server, and leave with it.

Alternatively, an attacker could remove the server's hard drives, make an image, and then place the drives back in the server without anyone even knowing that data has been compromised.

Having physical access to some hardware almost eliminates the need to have login credentials. Almost every system—""workstation, router, switch, access point—""can be broken into if an attacker has physical access.

### Access Cards 01:12-01:45

To ensure access to authorized personnel, locked doors can be secured with sensors such as card readers or proximity readers. Access cards can be used to control entrance to a secure facility, a room, or even cabinet. Barcode readers require a barcode to be scanned using infrared technology. Magnetic stripe readers require that a card be swiped. Card readers transmit a low radio frequency (RF). When a card is within a certain distance, the card uses the RF signal to transmit the code to the reader.

### Alarms 01:45-01:59

In the event a door is somehow accessed without authorization, you probably want to have an alarm system in place to notify the appropriate individuals. The alarm could be silent or audible depending on the time of day and your organization's needs.

### Hardware Locks 01:59-02:15

When you have laptops or workstation systems that are especially valuable assets, you may want to consider using cable locks to physically secure them to a desk or wall.

Most desktop and notebook systems have hard points built into them where you can attach a cable lock.

### Secure Data 02:15-02:53

While you may not consider data to be a physical asset, there are some measures that can be taken to protect your data.

First, secure all data backups. Since they contain all your organization's information, it's extremely important to properly secure them.

If someone were to get hold of those backups, it would be relatively easy to reconstruct your server data, so lock up your backups!

At the very minimum, keep them in a cabinet that can be locked.

However, I highly recommend using a safe instead. Safes are much harder to break into than a cabinet, and if the safe is bolted to the ground, it can't be carried off.

### Secure Data Destruction 02:53-03:30

Second, you'll want to be sure to maintain a solid policy for handling documents.

Any sensitive material should be locked up in filing cabinets.

Likewise, any items that are going to be thrown away should be securely handled. Shredding is the most common form of destroying documents, but it's somewhat flawed since the pieces could be reassembled with time.

More effective methods of destroying documents include burning or pulping the documents.

As you can see, these methods could get a bit messy and time consuming, so you may want to consider hiring a third-party company that specializes in secure data destruction.

### USB Data Blocker 03:30-04:19

The benefit of mobile devices is that we can take them anywhere, and if the battery starts to die, all you have to do is find a charging port somewhere and plug it in. While this is convenient, it can also be a security risk. Consider that many mobile devices use the same port for charging and data transfer. Now consider how much valuable information you have stored on your devices. Let's say you plug your phone into a charging station at a hotel, an airport, or anywhere else that's not your personal home or office. Hackers could use this connection to steal your data or install malware on your device.

To prevent this from happening, you can use a USB data blocker. This device is plugged in between your charging cable and the charging station. This data blocker ensures that no data can be transferred to or from from the device while it's charging.

### Summary 04:19-04:38

That's it for this lesson.

In this lesson we discussed some basic physical security guidelines.

These include locking and securing all doors and securing all physical data.

If you haven't already done so, you should implement these guidelines right away.

## 3.2.2 Hardware Security Facts

This lesson covers the topic of hardware security measures.

### Hardware Security Measures

The following table describes several recommended hardware security measures.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Security Measure
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Door locks
    </td>
    <td>
     The first line of defense in protecting computer systems is to control access to the location where the
        computers are located.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Many businesses use cubicles, which leave computers in plain sight and easily accessible to anyone. Controlling
          access to the building is critical to prevent unauthorized people from gaining access to computers.
      </li>
      <li>
       Place critical or sensitive devices in a locked room.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      For good physical security, implement the following protections.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Keep doors to the rooms locked as much as possible, especially when the rooms are not in use.
      </li>
      <li>
       Use keypads or card readers to control room access.
      </li>
      <li>
       Do not leave the door ajar to adjust the temperature inside the room.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hardware locks
    </td>
    <td>
     Hardware locks prevent the theft of computers or components.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Keep servers and other devices inside locked cabinets or locked rooms.
      </li>
      <li>
       Bolt or chain workstations to desks or other stationary objects to prevent theft.
      </li>
      <li>
       Lock cases to prevent opening up devices and removing components, such as memory and hard drives.
      </li>
      <li>
       For laptops, use removable cable locks when computers are left unattended in public areas. You can also use motion
          detectors that sound an alarm when a laptop is moved.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Access cards
    </td>
    <td>
     Access cards can be used to secure a facility, room, or cabinet.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Barcode readers require a barcode to be scanned using infrared technology.
      </li>
      <li>
       Magnetic stripe readers require that a card be swiped.
      </li>
      <li>
       Proximity card readers transmit a low radio frequency (RF). When a card is within a certain distance, the card uses
          the RF signal to transmit the code to the reader.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Secure data destruction
    </td>
    <td>
     Data is an important resource for any organization. All digital data and paper data should be
        protected. Any paperwork containing sensitive information should be securely destroyed. The following are some of the
        options for secure data destruction:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Burning
      </li>
      <li>
       Shredding
      </li>
      <li>
       Pulping
      </li>
      <li>
       Pulverizing
      </li>
      <li>
       Degaussing
      </li>
      <li>
       Third-party solutions
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Checkout policy
    </td>
    <td>
     A checkout policy ensures that hardware does not leave the organization's premises without a
        manager's approval. Checkout policies can include the following details:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Acceptable use is limited to business-specific activities on the device.
      </li>
      <li>
       A listing of software that is installed on the device.
      </li>
      <li>
       Characteristics of the hardware such as the serial number, make, and model number.
      </li>
      <li>
       A rule that borrowers must not install software on the devices.
      </li>
      <li>
       A rule that returning the device should be within a reasonable or defined period.
      </li>
      <li>
       A rule that liability is placed on the borrower for the device's physical safety.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 3.2.3 Physical Network Protection

### Physical Network Infrastructure 00:00-00:25

Your networking infrastructure is one of the most important components of your organization. It's the backbone of communication and data storage. If this infrastructure is compromised, an attacker could have complete access to your organization's information. Because of this, it's extremely important to take the proper steps to secure this infrastructure.

### Locked Doors 00:25-01:10

Let's talk about the networking closet for a second.

The networking closet is where things like your routers, switches, bridges, hubs, and servers reside. If an attacker gains physical access to any of these components, they can configure them to allow remote or backdoor access.

One way you can secure this hardware is to – you guessed it – lock the doors! Regardless of the size of your organization, these networking components should always be inside a locked room that only certain people can access.

Make sure the lock to this room has some sort of access logging. For example, a lot of key card locking mechanisms track the time, date, and individual when the door is opened. This can be helpful when you're identifying the source of an attack.

### Vault 01:10-01:27

Another way you can secure networking devices is to keep --them in a locked cage, or a vault. You can do this in addition to a locked room or in place of a locked room. Obviously, combining the two physical security measures is best, but make sure to have at least one.

### Faraday Cage 01:27-02:20

If your organization is particularly security-focused, it's also possible to place your networking equipment inside a device called a Faraday cage.

Faraday cages block all electromagnetic emissions. In fact, if you walk inside a Faraday cage while talking on a cell phone, the call is dropped. Faraday cages defend against attackers who collect electronic emissions from devices. This may seem a bit strange, but it's possible. The technique is called Van Eck phreaking, and it's a form of eavesdropping.

Some hackers are even able collect emissions from processors and identify the decryption algorithms being used.

Using a faraday cage can prevent these techniques as well. In fact, companies that have government contracts are often required to adhere to a special emission security specification called TEMPEST, which requires the use of a Faraday cage.

### Isolated Devices 02:20-02:37

Now, if your organization --allows internet access to email servers or web servers, you're allowing an untrusted network to access your network. As you can see in this example, an attacker could use this opening to access other devices on your company's private network.

### Demilitarized Zone 02:37-02:51

A demilitarized zone, or DMZ, provides enhanced security by isolating your publicly accessible network from your privately accessible network. Basically, you're using a firewall to create two separate networks.

### Air Gap 02:51-03:24

When organizations have top secret information, some devices contain data so sensitive that it should be completely inaccessible. One way to protect these devices is to use an air gap, a security method where a computer, a server, or a small network of computers is physically isolated from the internet and any unsecured networks. This means that only individuals authorized to access that computer or network can, and they have to do it in person – not from the internet, and not even from another internetwork within the organization.

### Protective Cable Distribution 03:24-04:26

So, we've talked about securing devices, networks, and data, but we can't forget physical cables! Cables are, after all, the primary communication infrastructure of your organization. If you've ever seen a spy or heist movie where the tech genius places a little clamp on an Ethernet wire to eavesdrop on communications, well, that type of threat isn't fictional. It's possible. Ethernet cables leak electromagnetic emissions. And with the right tools, they can be collected. There are several ways to protect against this type of attack. One is to use a transmission medium that's impervious to eavesdropping, such as fiber optic cabling. But this gets very expensive very quickly.

Another option is to employ a protective distribution system, or PDS. This is a metal cabinet that locks away all the networking cables and prevents any type of emissions. PDSs also keep attackers from physically removing cables or plugging in additional cables. This method is primarily used by utility companies.

### Summary 04:26-04:49

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we looked at some of the physical dangers that threaten your networking infrastructure and the various ways you can protect your data and hardware from them. We also discussed secured areas for your network devices and protected cable distribution for your primary lines of communication.

## 3.2.4 Physical Network Protection Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Secured areas
- Physical security attacks against smart cards and USB devices
- Isolated networks

### Secured Areas

Physical security can protect a network from misuses of equipment by untrained employees or contractors. It can protect the network from hackers, competitors, and terrorists who might enter the premises and try to change equipment configurations. Physical security can also protect resources from natural disasters, such as floods, fires, storms, and earthquakes.

Depending on your particular network design, physical security should be installed to protect core routers, demarcation points, cabling, modems, servers, hosts, backup storage, and so on. Because physical security is such an obvious requirement, it is easy to forget to plan for it. However, it should never be overlooked or considered less important than other security mechanisms.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Security Measure
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Locked network closet
    </td>
    <td>
     Regardless of the size of your organization, networking components should always be inside of a locked
        room that only specific individuals have access to. Make sure the lock to this room has some sort of access logging. For
        example, many key card locking mechanisms track the time, date, and individual who opens the door. This can be helpful when
        identifying the source of an attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Vault
    </td>
    <td>
     Another way you can secure networking devices is to keep them in a locked cage, or a vault. You can do
        this in addition to a locked room or you can place the vault inside a locked room. Obviously, combining the two physical security measures
        is best, but make sure to have at least one.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Faraday cage
    </td>
    <td>
     Faraday cages are designed to block all electromagnetic emissions. Faraday cages are used to protect
        against attackers who collect electronic emissions from electronic devices. The technique of collecting electronic
        emissions is known as Van Eck phreaking. It is a form of eavesdropping.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Protected cable distribution
    </td>
    <td>
     A metal cabinet that locks away all the networking cables and prevents any type of emissions. PDSs also
        keep attackers from physically removing cables or plugging in additional cables. PDSs are most commonly used by utility
        companies.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Physical Security Attacks Against Smart Cards and USB Devices

Organizations should be aware of physical security attacks against smart cards and USB devices.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Attack Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Malicious universal serial bus (USB) cable
    </td>
    <td>
     It is common now to find USB charging stations in 
		public places, such as airports, hotels, and restaurants. It is possible 
		that these could be used to copy data from a users device. Users can 
		protect themselves by using USB data blockers. These are used to prevent data transfers to USB drives. This device is connected between
        the USB charging port and your charging cable and helps to protect access to your data.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Malicious flash drive
    </td>
    <td>
     Plugging an infected USB flash drive to a host 
		system or network can be a major risk. These USB drives can be infected 
		with malware which later can be used to disrupt the operation of a 
		business.
     <br>
     <br>
     A malicious USB drive can install malware such as backdoors, trojans, 
		and ransomware. These drives could also install browser hijackers that 
		will redirect a victim to a website of choice for the hacker.
     <br>
     <br>
     One of the first incident was thought to have happened in 2010 when the 
		Stuxnet worm was distributed via USB sticks to launch attacks on the 
		networks of an Iranian facility.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Card cloning
    </td>
    <td>
     Card cloning is the process of making copies of 
		smart cards. Lost, misplaced, or stolen cards can be copied, if there is 
		not cryptographic protection on them.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Skimming
    </td>
    <td>
     Card skimming is when there is a card reader placed 
		in order to copy the credentials of a users smart card. Once the cards 
		details are copied, it can be used to create counterfeit cards.
     <p>
      Proximity cards can also be copied. These transmit the credentials 
		and can be captured with portable RFID reader.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Isolated networks

If your organization allows internet access to email servers or web servers, you’ve allowed untrusted networks access to your network. An attacker could use this opening to access other devices on your organization’s private network.

Here are a few security measures that can be taken to ensure that your private network and devices are isolated from the public network.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Security Measure
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Demilitarized zone (DMZ) or Screened Subnet
    </td>
    <td>
     A demilitarized zone, also called a screened subnet, provides enhanced security by isolating your publicly accessible network from your
        privately accessible network. Basically, you’re using a firewall to creating two separate networks.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Air gap
    </td>
    <td>
     An air gap is a security method in which a computer, a server, or a small network of computers is
        physically isolated from the internet or other unsecured networks. This means that only individuals authorized to access
        that computer or network can access it. It can be accessed only in person, not over the internet, not even from another
        internetwork within the organization.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
