---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 3.1 Physical Threats
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What types of physical controls can be implemented to protect the perimeter of a building?
- What is the difference between a mantrap and a double-entry door?
- What types of doors are effective deterrents to tailgating?
- How does an anti-passback system work?
- How do physical access logs help to increase facility security?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Implement physical security.

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Physical security
    </td>
    <td>
     Physical security is the protection of corporate assets from threats such as unauthorized entry, theft or damage.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Prevention
    </td>
    <td>
     Prevention is taking the steps necessary to avert unauthorized access, theft, damage, or other type of security breach.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Detection
    </td>
    <td>
     Detection is identifying that a security breach has happened or is happening.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Recovery
    </td>
    <td>
     Recovery is the process of returning a system to a functional state and repairing any damage.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Access list
    </td>
    <td>
     A list of personnel who are authorized to enter a secure facility
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Mantrap
    </td>
    <td>
     A specialized entrance with two locking doors that create a security buffer zone between two areas.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Turnstile
    </td>
    <td>
     A barrier that permits entry in only one direction.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Double-entry door
    </td>
    <td>
     A double-entry door has two doors that are locked from the outside but have crash bars on the inside
        that allow easy exit.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Bollard
    </td>
    <td>
     Bollards are short, sturdy posts used to prevent a vehicle from crashing into a secure area.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Smart card
    </td>
    <td>
     Access cards that have encrypted access information. Smart cards can be contactless 
		or require contact.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Proximity card
    </td>
    <td>
     Proximity cards, also known as radio frequency identification (RFID) cards, are a subset of smart
        cards that use the 125 kHz frequency to communicate with proximity readers.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Biometric Locks
    </td>
    <td>
     Biometric locks increase security by using fingerprints or iris scans. They reduce the threat from lost
        keys or cards.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     TestOut Security Pro
    </td>
    <td>
     2.0 Physical and Network Security
     <p>
      2.1 Harden Physical Access
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     2.7. Explain the importance of physical security controls.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Bollards/barricades
      </li>
      <li>
       Mantraps
      </li>
      <li>
       Badges
      </li>
      <li>
       Alarms
      </li>
      <li>
       Signage
      </li>
      <li>
       Cameras
       <ul>
        <li>
         Motion recognition
        </li>
        <li>
         Object detection
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Industrial camouflage
      </li>
      <li>
       Personnel
       <ul>
        <li>
         Guards
        </li>
        <li>
         Robot sentries
        </li>
        <li>
         Reception
        </li>
        <li>
         Two-person integrity/control
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       USB data blocker
      </li>
      <li>
       Lighting
      </li>
      <li>
       Fencing
      </li>
      <li>
       Drones/UAV
      </li>
      <li>
       Visitor logs
      </li>
      <li>
       Faraday cages
      </li>
      <li>
       Air gap
      </li>
      <li>
       Demilitarized zone (DMZ)
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 3.1.1 Physical Security

### Physical Security Concepts 00:00-00:07

In this lesson, we're going to discuss physical security.

### Physical Security Concepts 00:07-01:15

The more secure your facility is, the harder it will be for an individual to gain access to your network systems. In some instances, your efforts may even be enough to discourage individuals from attempting an attack.

There are three general concepts to consider when determining physical security: prevention, detection, and recovery. It's much easier to prevent an attack than it is to try to recover from one. Your primary goal is to prevent attacks by making your network and computer systems difficult to access. Most attackers look for easy targets, so if your systems are properly secured, most will move on.

Detection is the method used to identify a breach when it happens. You need to be able to identify the breach almost immediately. This means knowing when the breach occurred, where the entry point was, what systems were accessed, and whether anything was damaged or stolen as a result.

In the event that you're attacked, you need to recover as quickly as possible. You need to fix damage that occurred, replace stolen components, and plan security measures needed to prevent your system from being compromised again.

### Defense in Depth 01:15-02:44

Let's look at some ways you can physically protect your organization and systems. To do this, we're going to use what's known as the defense in depth strategy.

Defense in depth is the concept of layering defense after defense so that even if an attacker breaches one layer, they're faced with yet another obstacle. And if they're able to overcome that obstacle, they're faced with another and another.

For example, let's say we have a priceless family heirloom that needs to be protected from thieves. So, to protect it, we put it in a safe. But we know these thieves are master safe crackers, so we decide to put that safe in a locked cage, which is in a locked room that only has one entrance. That room is inside a building that's patrolled by guards and monitored by video cameras. Around that building is a ten-foot-high fence covered in barbed wire, and for good measure, we electrify the fence.

With this example, you can see that even if the thieves are able to make it through the fence, say, by digging under it, they still have to get through the guards and cameras. If they sneak past those, they still have to get inside the house and then the room—"and then they have to crack the safe. This is the idea behind defense in depth. By layering our defenses, we increase the overall security of our organization.

In this example, we have three levels of physical access security: perimeter security, facility access security, and inner-facility access security.

### Perimeter Security 02:44-03:12

Perimeter security is designed to keep unauthorized persons from even getting to the building. Fencing is one example of perimeter security. Video surveillance can also be used to track anyone entering or exiting the perimeter. Access can also be managed from one gate, either by a security guard or a keypad. It's also important to be sure that the building's perimeter has plenty of lighting. Security guards can only be effective if they can see.

### Facility Access Security 03:12-03:44

Once someone has passed through the perimeter —" whether authorized or unauthorized —" they should encounter some type of building access security. The most basic type of access security is a locked door. A locked door does a lot to discourage would-be intruders. These doors could be accessed by employees using a proximity card, biometric scanner, or smart card. For an extra layer of security, you could have a security guard or a receptionist, either in person or via a camera, to verify anyone entering the facility.

### Piggybacking and Tailgating 03:44-04:00

Another risk is piggybacking and tailgating. Piggybacking is when a person with credentials gains access but then allows others to follow without requiring them to authenticate. Tailgating is when the authorized person is unaware that they let someone else in.

### Employee Education 04:00-04:38

There are several ways you can prevent this type of attack. The first, and probably most important, is employee education. Train employees never to allow people to follow them into the building and to never provide building access to people who don't have their own access card.

Attackers trying to use piggybacking may appeal to empathy by having a large stack of items in their arms or saying they forgot their card at home. Some may even try to tell you that they were just hired and don't have their access card yet. Again, educating your employees about all these types of attacks and what to do in these situations is crucial.

### Mantrap 04:38-05:32

A more sophisticated way of preventing tailgating and piggybacking is to use a mantrap, sometimes referred to as an airlock. A mantrap creates a security buffer zone between two areas by using a small space between two sets of interlocking doors.

For someone to get through the first door, they must gain authorization, either from a security guard or an automated access pad. Before the second door can open, the first door must close. At that point, authorization can be provided to open the second door. Since both doors cannot be open at the same time, another person must wait before they can enter the first door. In addition to providing two points of authentication, a mantrap can also be used to safely trap an intruder should they fail to provide proper authentication, allowing ample time for authorities to arrive and detain the individual.

### Inner-Facility Access 05:32-06:04

Once an individual has cleared the perimeter and building security, they should be faced with a third level of security called inner-facility access. The goal of inner-facility access is to regulate access to areas within the facility itself.

The most basic forms of inner-facility security are locked doors and signage indicating that only authorized personnel should enter an area. Other examples include keyfobs, swipe cards, or ID badges to control who can go where within the facility.

### Summary 06:04-06:26

That's it for this lesson. In this video, we discussed the three main concepts of physical security: prevention, detection, and recovery. We also discussed the defense in depth strategy, a method used to provide multiple layers of security for your property.

## 3.1.2 Physical Security Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Physical security
- Control measures
- Defense in depth

### Physical Security

Physical security is the protection of corporate assets from threats, such as theft or damage. There are three factors to keep in mind with physical security: prevention, detection, and recovery.

- Prevention is making the location less tempting to break into.
- Detection is identifying what was broken into, what is missing, and the extent of the damage.
- Recovery is the review of the physical security procedures, repairing any damage, and hardening the physical security of the company against future problems.

Important aspects of physical security include:

- Restricting physical access to facilities and computer systems.
- Preventing interruptions of computer services caused by problems such as loss of power or fire.
- Preventing unauthorized disclosure of information.
- Disposing of sensitive material.
- Protecting the interior and exterior of your facility.

### Control Measures

Physical security should implement the following measures.

<table>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Perimeter barriers
    </td>
    <td>
     The first measure in physically securing a building is to secure the perimeter and restrict access to
        secure entry points. Methods for securing the perimeter are explained in the following list.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Fences provide an environmental barrier that prevents easy access to the facility. A low fence (3-4 feet) acts as a
          deterrent to casual intrusion. A higher fence (6-7 feet) acts as a deterrent unless the trespasser has a specific intent
          to violate security. A fence 8 feet or higher topped with barbed wire is an effective deterrent.
      </li>
      <li>
       Barricades can be erected to prevent vehicles from approaching the facility.
      </li>
      <li>
       Bollards are short, sturdy posts used to prevent a car from crashing into a secure area.
      </li>
      <li>
       Signs should be posted to inform individuals that they are entering a secured area.
      </li>
      <li>
       Guard dogs are generally highly reliable, but are appropriate only for physical perimeter security. They can be
          expensive to keep and maintain. Their use might raise issues of liability and insurance.
      </li>
      <li>
       Lighting deters casual intruders, helps guards see intruders, and is necessary for most cameras to monitor the area.
          To be effective, lights should be placed to eliminate shadows or dark spots.
      </li>
      <li>
       Security guards offer the best protection for perimeter security because they can actively respond to a variety of
          threat situations. Security guards can also reference an access list that explicitly lists who can enter a secure
          facility. However, guards are expensive, require training, and can be unreliable or inconsistent.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV)
    </td>
    <td>
     Closed-circuit television can be used as both a preventative tool (when monitoring live events) or as
        an investigative tool (when events are recorded for later playback). Camera types include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       A bullet camera, which has a built-in lens. It is long and round in shape. Most bullet cameras can be used indoors or
          outdoors.
      </li>
      <li>
       A c-mount camera, which has interchangeable lenses. It is typically rectangle in shape with the lens on the end. Most
          c-mount cameras require a special housing to be used outdoors.
      </li>
      <li>
       A dome camera, which is a camera protected with a plastic or glass dome. These cameras are more vandal-resistant than
          other cameras.
      </li>
      <li>
       A pan tilt zoom (PTZ) camera, which lets you dynamically move the camera and zoom in on specific areas. Cameras
          without PTZ capabilities are manually set looking toward a specific direction. Automatic PTZ mode automatically moves the
          camera between several preset locations. A manual PTZ lets an operator remotely control the position of the camera.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      When selecting cameras, be aware of the following characteristics:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       The focal length measures the magnification power of a lens. The focal length controls the distance that the camera
          can see, as well as how much detail can be seen at a specific range. The focal length is expressed in millimeters (mm). A
          higher focal length lets you see more detail at a greater distance. Most cameras have a 4 mm lens with a range of 30-35
          feet. This allows you to see facial features at that distance. A fixed lens camera has a set focal length. A varifocal
          camera lens lets you adjust the focus (zoom).
      </li>
      <li>
       A 70-degree view angle is the largest view angle possible without distorting the image.
      </li>
      <li>
       The resolution is rated in the number of lines (such as 400) included in the image. In general, the higher the
          resolution, the sharper the image.
      </li>
      <li>
       LUX is a measure of the sensitivity to light. The lower the number, the less light is necessary for a clear
          image.
      </li>
      <li>
       Infrared cameras can record images in little or no light. Infrared cameras have a range of about 25 feet in no light
          and further in dimly-lit areas.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      When CCTV is used in a preventative way, you must have a guard or other person who monitors one or more cameras in
        real time. The cameras effectively expand the area that can be monitored by the guard. Cameras can only detect security
        breaches. Guards can prevent and react to security breaches.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Doors
    </td>
    <td>
     A mantrap is a specialized entrance with two doors that create a security buffer zone between two
        areas.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Once a person enters into the space between the doors, both doors are locked.
      </li>
      <li>
       To enter the facility, authentication must be provided. Authentication may include visual identification and
          identification credentials.
      </li>
      <li>
       Mantraps should permit only a single person to enter. The person must provide authentication.
      </li>
      <li>
       If authentication is not provided, the intruder is kept in the mantrap until authorities arrive.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      A turnstile is a barrier that permits entry in only one direction.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Physical turnstiles are often used to control entry for large events such as concerts and sporting events.
      </li>
      <li>
       Optical turnstiles use sensors and alarms to control entry.
      </li>
      <li>
       Turnstiles are often used to permit easy exit from a secure area. Entry is controlled through a mantrap or other
          system that requires authentication for entry.
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      A double-entry door has two doors that are locked from the outside but have crash bars on the inside that allow easy
        exit. Double-entry doors are typically used only for emergency exits and alarms sound when the doors are opened.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Door locks
    </td>
    <td>
     Door locks allow access only to people with the proper key. Lock types include:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Pick-resistant locks with restricted key duplication are the most secure key lock. It is important to note that all
          traditional key locks are vulnerable to lock-picking (shimming).
      </li>
      <li>
       Keypad locks require knowledge of a code and reduce the threat from lost keys and cards. Clean keypads frequently to
          remove indications of buttons used.
      </li>
      <li>
       Smart cards have the ability to encrypt access information. Smart cards can be contact or contactless. Contactless
          smart cards use the 13.56 MHz frequency to communicate with proximity readers. A smart card can communicate a great deal
          of information.
      </li>
      <li>
       Proximity cards, also known as radio frequency identification (RFID) cards, are a subset of smart cards that use the
          125 kHz frequency to communicate with proximity readers. Proximity cards differ from smart cards because they are
          designed to communicate only the card's identity.
      </li>
      <li>
       Biometric locks increase security by using fingerprints or iris scans. They reduce the threat from lost keys or
          cards.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Physical access logs
    </td>
    <td>
     Physical access logs are implemented by the guards of a facility and require everyone gaining access to
        the facility to sign in.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Physical access controls
    </td>
    <td>
     Physical access controls can be implemented inside the facility.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Physical controls can include key fobs, swipe cards, or badges.
      </li>
      <li>
       To control access to sensitive areas within the facility, require a card swipe or reader.
      </li>
      <li>
       Some systems can track personnel movement within a facility and proactively lock or unlock doors based on the access
          token device.
      </li>
      <li>
       An anti-passback system prevents a card holder from passing their card back to someone else.
      </li>
      <li>
       Physical controls are often implemented along with sensors and alarms to detect unauthorized access. Photoelectric
          sensors detect motion and are best suited to detect a perimeter breach rather than interior motion detection. Wave
          pattern, heat sensing, and ultrasonic sensors are better suited for interior motion detection than perimeter breach
          detection.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   </tbody><thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Control Measure
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
   </tbody>
  </table>

As you implement physical security, be sure to keep the safety of employees and visitors in mind. Consider the importance of the following actions:

- Implement adequate lighting in parking lots and around employee entrances.
- Implement emergency lighting that runs on protected power and automatically switches on when the main power goes off.
- Implement fail-open locking systems that allow employees to exit your facility quickly in the event of an emergency.
- Devise escape plans that utilize the best escape routes for each area in your organization. Post these escape plans in prominent locations.
- Conduct emergency drills to verify that the physical safety and security measures you have implemented function correctly.

### Defense in Depth

Physical security should deploy in the following sequence. If a step in the sequence fails, the next step should implement itself automatically.

- Deter initial access attempts
- Deny direct physical access
- Detect the intrusion
- Delay the violator to allow for response

When designing physical security, implement a layered defense system. Defense in depth is a process in which controls are implemented in layers to ensure that defeating one level of security does not allow an attacker subsequent access. Using multiple types of security controls within the same layer further enhances security. Tips for implementing a multi-layered defense system include:

- Protect entry points with a card access system, or some other type of control, as well as a security camera.
- Use a reception area to prevent the public, visitors, or contractors from entering secure areas of the building without an escort.
- Use the card access or other system to block access to elevators and stairwells. This prevents someone who successfully tailgates from gaining further access.
- Use a variety of access systems such as key locks, keypad locks, or biometric controls to secure offices or other sensitive areas.
- Implement security within offices and data centers using locking storage areas and computer passwords.

Perform physical security inspections quarterly. Violations should be addressed in a formal manner, with warnings and penalties imposed.
