---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 4.4 Linux Host Security
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     How do you check for unnecessary network services on a Linux system?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to identify open ports? What utility can identify open ports?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which utility can identify network statistics on a system?
    </li>
    <li>
     Which commands should you use to disable unneeded daemons?
    </li>
    <li>
     What are iptables?
    </li>
   </ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Remove unnecessary services and scan ports.
    </li>
    <li>
     Install and update iptables.
    </li>
    <li>
     Identify network connections on a system.
    </li>
   </ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
    <thead>
     <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
      Term
     </th>
     <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
      Definition
     </th>
    </tr></thead>
    <tbody>
     <tr>
      <td>
       iptables
      </td>
      <td>
       iptables is a firewall command line utility for Linux operation systems that uses three
            policy chains to allow or block network traffic.
      </td>
     </tr>
    </tbody>
   </table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
     </td>
     <td>
      1.6 Explain the security concerns associated with 
			various types of vulnerabilities.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Weak configurations
        <ul>
         <li>
          Open permissions
         </li>
         <li>
          Unsecured root accounts
         </li>
         <li>
          Errors
         </li>
         <li>
          Weak encryption
         </li>
         <li>
          Unsecure protocols
         </li>
         <li>
          Default settings
         </li>
         <li>
          Open ports and services
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       3.2 Given a scenario, implement host or application security solutions.
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Endpoint protection
        <ul>
         <li>
          Host-based firewall
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Hardening
        <ul>
         <li>
          Open ports and services
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       3.3 Given a scenario, implement secure network designs.
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Route security
       </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
       4.1 Given a scenario, use the appropriate tool to assess 
			organizational security.
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Network reconnaissance and discovery
        <ul>
         <li>
          nmap
         </li>
         <li>
          netstat
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 4.4.1 Linux Host Security

### Linux Host Security 00:00-00:47

The Linux operating system is widely used and preferred in the security community. Just like its Windows counterpart, though, Linux is vulnerable to attacks. By default, the Linux OS is designed to reduce vulnerability and attack surface, but attackers are still able to exploit known vulnerabilities. There's only one way to eliminate all potential threats and that's to disconnect from the internet. Unfortunately, this isn't an option for most users.

With that in mind, you should remain vigilant and take the necessary precautions to protect your system. In this lesson, we'll discuss how to minimize your Linux system's attack surface with simple yet effective methods for reducing the chances of an attack.

### Unload Unnecessary Services 00:47-02:24

The first step is to lessen your system's attack surface as a whole. The more services that are loaded and active on a system, the more opportunities exist for attack. Many services utilize a specific TCP/IP port that's exposed to the network. Services such as DNS, FTP, SNMP, and others may or may not be required on your system. If not, these services should be unloaded and deactivated.

Different Linux distributions load various programs and daemons, and certain programs and daemons are necessary dependencies of others. So make sure you understand your system's requirements before you attempt to unload and deactivate anything. To see a list of all loaded and active services, you can use the systemctl' command, as shown here. When used, both the service name and description are displayed. Additionally, you can add the list-dependencies' statement to display a dependency services tree. With this information, you can discover potentially unneeded services and unload them. You first stop the service and then disable it from starting automatically.

A word of caution do your research! Don't simply unload a service without knowing what it's used for. It may be a system service or a service that something else depends on. Look up the name in a search engine, or use the man' or info' utilities to find out what it's used for. Only then, if you determine it's unneeded, should you stop and disable the service.

### Use Nmap 02:24-03:25

It may be necessary to have ports open for a Linux system to work properly. For example, if a server provides DHCP or DNS services or web content, TCP/IP ports must be open to allow everything to work. One way to discover open ports on a system is to use the Nmap utility.

Nmap is a tool that's either bundled with Linux distributions or can be installed using apt or yum. When used appropriately, this tool can provide you with very useful information about a given system or network. When used inappropriately, attackers can take control and perform reconnaissance. For our purposes, we can use Nmap to show us our system's open ports.

Often, open ports are indications that a service is running on the system that controls that port. If we see a port open that shouldn't be, it can tell us that a service is running on the system that we probably don't need. We can check the system and stop and disable the service if needed.

### Use Nmap 03:25-04:54

In the example here, Nmap shows the default gateway's open ports. There may be ports we expect and others we don't. For example, here we see that port 80 is open with the service http. If this machine doesn't require web services, we may want to close that port by stopping the web server. If we see an unexpected open port, we need to find the service that's opening that port to determine whether the service is necessary or not. If it isn't, we can stop and disable the service to close the port. Just use this tool with caution. Since Nmap is widely used by hackers, running it may trigger alarms and alerts.

There are many command line parameters available with Nmap that let us customize the desired command output. Let's discuss a few. The -sU' and -sT' parameters display only UDP and TCP ports. Keep in mind that these parameters might make your scan take an extraordinarily long time. Use -6' to choose IPv6 scanning. To enable OS detection, use -A' or -O'.

We use the -p' parameter to specify a range, while the -sn' parameter enables a ping-only scan to determine if a host is up without having to perform a port scan.

### Use Netstat 04:54-06:24

Netstat is another Linux or Windows tool that we can use to scan for open ports. In this example, a Linux machine was used to display open ports on a system with IPv4. I used the -l' option to view a list of listening sockets and the 4' option to show only IPv4 addresses on the Linux host.

Here you see I have a socket open for ssh. Also, the system is running NTP. These are TCP/IP ports that are well known as ports 22 and 123, respectively. By using this output, I can also see what else is running on the system.

We can customize the Netstat utility to provide us with only the information we're specifically looking for. As with Nmap, the Netstat utility has several command line parameters. For example:

-a' lists all listening and non-listening sockets.

-i' displays statistics for all your network interfaces.

-l' displays just listening sockets or sockets that are open for listening.

-s' displays summary information for each protocol enabled on the system.

-r' shows your routing table.

Keep in mind that these options may vary in availability depending on whether we're using the Linux version of Netstat or the Windows version.

### Install Updates 06:24-08:23

In addition to unloading unneeded services, you also need to make sure that your Linux operating system remains current by installing operating system and program updates. For example, as software is released, it's usually not perfect and free of defects. Defects can take the form of logic errors in which a program doesn't calculate or apply input correctly. There could be something wrong with a screen display as well. In addition, vulnerabilities can be introduced that would allow threat actors to compromise your system. Often, these defects are found only after software has been released. So once the software is in use and the defects are found and corrected, it's important that you update your software immediately.

You can manually update the packages on your system using package managers such as yum or apt. The one you use will depend on which distribution you're using. These processes scour the repository and search for newer updates and patches. If a single package requires an update, the package name can be specified to check if that package requires an update. Most often, though, it's a good practice to update all available package updates. For example, if you're running a Red Hat variant, such as CentOS or Fedora, run the yum update command, as shown here. In this example, you see that only a single package libexif needs an update.

When you use a Debian variant like Ubuntu or Mint, you first run the apt update command. This refreshes the repository information. After that, you run apt upgrade to perform the manual update process. Notice that in this case, there are 28 packages to be upgraded. An exception to utilizing apt or yum is with SuSE Linux. SuSE Linux uses a different package manager called zypper. The syntax for the command is similar to apt and yum and accomplishes the same tasks.

### Enable a Host Firewall 08:23-10:56

The last topic for enabling Linux host security is to ensure a host-based firewall is running on your Linux system. One philosophy of computer security is to utilize a layered approach. Most systems are protected first by a network firewall. If anything does happen to get through, threat actors also have to contend with the host system's firewall as well. Most, if not all, Linux systems are distributed with host-firewall software. This software is known as firewalld.

In some instances, there might even be a series of firewalls that are specific to protecting certain network aspects. These together form a solid barrier to attackers. But nothing is foolproof and adding another layer of protection is always a good idea. The Linux host-based firewall adds additional protection from outside entities, and it can also protect the system from insider threats, too.

A host-based firewall acts like a gatekeeper between your system and the external and internal network. This firewall monitors all traffic that flows in both directions between the computer and network. You configure this firewall with a list of rules called access control lists, or ACLs. These rules define what is and isn't allowed to pass through. Several Linux distributions use the firewalld daemon to implement host-based firewalls. Other distributions might use a different package, so check your distribution vendor to see which one to use.

First, make sure firewalld has been installed on your system. You can use the yum or apt command lines to check whether it has, as shown here. If those commands return a value, you know firewalld has been installed and you can begin configuring it. If you get a blank message or one stating firewalld could not be found, you'll need to download and install it. This can also be done using the yum or apt commands. Know that firewalld depends on the Python programming language. If not already installed, just note that the installer will also install the needed Python dependencies on your system.

If firewalld is already installed or if you just installed it, you need to ensure it's running and active with the systemctl' command shown here. It might not be running, and you might see inactive or dead as the status. If that's the case, you can start the daemon by issuing the systemctl start firewalld command. Checking the status again should show the daemon running.

### Manage Firewalld 10:56-13:41

With the firewall running, there are several different commands that you can use to manage it.

We use the firewall-cmd command and add parameters to control how the firewall operates and is configured. A sampling of the commands are listed here. Run the firewall-cmd --state' command to check the firewall's status. You can also run firewall-cmd --get-active-zones' to display the default firewall zone configuration.

This particular firewall package comes with several predefined firewall zones that you can use, starting at extremely secure to not very secure at all. Predefined zones include Home, External, Work, and Trusted. The default zone most distributions predefine is Public, but you can actually pick whichever one you want to use.

Once you have the firewall running and a default zone set up, there may be situations in which you need to open a particular firewall port to support a particular service. For example, if the system is set up as a web server, you must let web traffic through. If you don't configure firewall exceptions, the web traffic will be blocked.

Web servers typically use ports 80 and 443 or HTTP and HTTPS for web traffic. We need to allow these ports to remain open so that the web server is reachable. To do this, we need to allow the right ports and protocols through the firewall. To enable web services, we open ports on the firewall. To open ports, we add them to the exception list on the firewall itself.

This is also done using the firewall-cmd command. For example, we first use the --permanent' parameter to store the exception in the database so that it remains persistent even if the computer is restarted. Next, we need to define which zone we're using and then the port we want open.

It's also possible to use the protocol rather than the port number when placing exceptions into the firewall. We place the exception in the firewalld configuration with HTTPS by using the same command but substituting the protocol. The last thing we need to do is restart the firewall or reload the configuration. If the system is in use and we don't want to disrupt it, we enter the reload' command, which allows the firewall daemon to continue running. The new configuration is loaded and activated for us in the background.

The last thing we need to do is restart or reload the newly configured firewall. This allows us to use these changes immediately without rebooting the system. The reload parameter leaves the firewall activated.

### Summary 13:41-14:12

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed some procedures to keep a Linux host safer from attacks. We discussed removing unneeded services from your system and using Nmap and Netstat to identify running services. We also discussed how keeping the system current with OS and program updates is important. Finally, we ended by discussing the benefits of implementing the host-based firewall called firewalld.

## 4.4.2 Removing Unnecessary Services

### View Linux Services 00:00-00:17

It's important to know many things about services: how to start them, see if they're running, stop them, restart them, enable them, and disable them. For this demo, we're going to work with an Ubuntu Linux system and practice working with some services.

### View Services in the init.d Directory 00:17-01:05

I'm already logged on to the system, and I'll start the terminal. I have a shortcut here, but you can also go here, to Show Applications, and then search for ‘terminal' in the search box.

I want to see the init.d directory. We're interested in services that are running. Let's go to the directory by typing ‘cd /etc/init.d/'. Press Enter. Now I'll do an ‘ls' to see what's in this directory.

All right, here are my services. Here, I have Apache server. Here, I have mysql. Over here, we have ssh. And down here, there's FTP. On this system, there's no reason to have FTP running, so let's see how we can stop it.

I'll type ‘cd' to get back to root and ‘clear' to clean up my screen.

### Starting and Stopping FTP Services 01:05-02:51

So far, I've used init.d to view the services. To manage the services, I'm going to use the systemctl command. Using init.d scripts to manage services isn't possible on newer systems anymore, but I still use it to view services sometimes.

Let's look at my FTP server. First, I want to see its status. So, let's type ‘sudo systemctl status vsftpd' and press Enter. It says it's enabled, but it's currently stopped.

I'm going to use my up arrow to get to the last command, change it from status to ‘start', and press Enter. Now I'll arrow up until I see status and press Enter again.

I can see that it's running along with some statistics, such as how long it's been up. I can also see the process ID, or PID, right here. Let's clear the screen.

Now I'm going to use my up arrow to go back to my last command. I'm going to backspace here, get rid of the word "start:", and type in ‘stop' to stop the FTP service.

I'll arrow up again until I get to status and press Enter. Now you can see that the process has stopped. I'll press Ctrl+C to exit this command and then type ‘clear'.

Now I might say, oops, that's not what I wanted to do! It's okay. We'll just arrow up again until we get to start. Press Enter, and everything's just fine again.

What if I made changes to my FTP server, and I need to restart the service? I can just do a restart. Let's up arrow to the last command, backspace here, type in ‘restart', and press Enter. Arrow up to the last command, backspace, and change this to ‘status'. Press Enter, and you can see my service restarted. I'll clear the screen again.

### Enable and Disable FTP Services 02:51-03:46

So far, we've stopped and started our FTP service. But what if I want to have it start at system startup? Or, perhaps, not start when the system starts up?

First, let's see if the service is enabled or not. I can do that with the is-enabled command. I'll arrow up to the last command and change this part to ‘is-enabled'. Press Enter, and right here, it says that it's enabled.

What if you want to have your service start every time your system starts? You can do that by changing this to ‘enable' and pressing Enter. Now you can see the status is enabled.

If I don't want the service to start, I'll arrow up and change this to ‘disable'. Press Enter, and that'll tell this system not to start FTP at startup. I'll arrow up and change this to ‘status', and you can see that, up here, it says "disabled", so when the system boots, FTP won't start. Note that the service is still running at the moment because all we did was keep it from running at startup; we didn't stop it from running at this moment.

### Summary 03:46-04:03

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we worked with system services. First, we viewed the services to see what was on our system. Then we practiced stopping, starting, enabling, and disabling services.

## 4.4.3 Linux Host Security Facts

This lesson covers network security on Linux.

### Network Security on Linux

The following table describes the general procedures for increasing the network security of a Linux system:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Security Task
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Procedure
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Remove unnecessary software
    </td>
    <td>
     Unnecessary software occupies disk space and could introduce security flaws. To remove unnecessary
        software:
     <ol>
      <li>
       Enter one of the following commands:
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         yum list installed
        </b>
        or
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dnf list installed
        </b>
        to see installed RPM packages on the computer.
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         apt
        </b>
        <ul>
         <li>
          <b class="fw-bold">
           apt autoremove
          </b>
          automatically removes unused packages
         </li>
         <li>
          <b class="fw-bold">
           apt list
          </b>
          list all installed packages
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dpkg get-selections
        </b>
        to see installed Debian packages on the computer.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Research the function of any unrecognized package to determine if it is necessary.
      </li>
      <li>
       Use one of the following commands to uninstall unnecessary packages.
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         yum erase
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dnf remove
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         apt remove
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         rpm -e
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dpkg -r
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </ol>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Check for unnecessary network services
    </td>
    <td>
     Unnecessary network services waste computer resources and 
		increase the system's attack service. To remove unnecessary network services:
     <ol>
      <li>
       Find all installed services and determine which are not needed:&nbsp; 
			DNS, SNMP, DHCP and others.
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         systemctl --type=service --state=active
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Use the
       <b class="fw-bold">
        man
       </b>
       command and the Internet to research services you don't recognize.
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        If the service is not needed, determine if it is a dependency for another service.
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Disable the service by using the following command:
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         systemctl disable
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          servicename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Use one of the following commands to immediately stop the script:
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         systemctl stop
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          servicename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Use one of the following commands to remove the script package entirely.
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         yum erase
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dnf remove
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         apt remove
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         rpm -e
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dpkg -r
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          packagename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </ol>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Locate open ports
    </td>
    <td>
     Open ports can provide information about which operating system a computer uses. Also, they can provide
        entry points or information about ways to formulate an attack. To locate open ports:
     <ol>
      <li>
       Install the
       <b class="fw-bold">
        nmap
       </b>
       utility if it is not already installed.
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         yum install nmap
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         dnf install nmap
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         apt -i nmap
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Use both of the following commands to scan for open ports:
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         nmap -sT
        </b>
        <i class="fs-italicize">
         ipaddress|fqdn
        </i>
        scans for TCP ports
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         nmap -sU
        </b>
        <i class="fs-italicize">
         ipaddress|fqdn
        </i>
        scans for UDP ports
       </li>
      </ul>
      <li>
       Determine which services use the open ports.
      </li>
      <li>
       Disable any unused service using the open ports information.&nbsp; 
			(
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        Make sure the service used is not a dependency for another 
			service
       </i>
       ).
      </li>
      <ul>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         systemctl disable
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          servicename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
       <li>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         systemctl stop
         <i class="fs-italicize">
          servicename
         </i>
        </b>
       </li>
      </ul>
     </ol>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Check network connections
    </td>
    <td>
     Open network connections (open sockets) on a computer create a security risk. A
     <i class="fs-italicize">
      socket
     </i>
     is an endpoint of a bi-directional communication flow across a computer network. Use the following
     <b class="fw-bold">
      netstat
     </b>
     (network statistics) or
     <b class="fw-bold">
      ss
     </b>
     (socket statistics) options to identify the open network connections on Linux systems:
     <ul>
      <li>
       <b class="fw-bold">
        -a
       </b>
       lists both listening and non-listening sockets.
      </li>
      <li>
       <b class="fw-bold">
        -l
       </b>
       (
       <i class="fs-italicize">
        lowercase 'L'
       </i>
       )
       <b class="fw-bold">
       </b>
       lists listening sockets.
      </li>
      <li>
       <b class="fw-bold">
        -s
       </b>
       displays statistics for each protocol.
      </li>
      <li>
       <b class="fw-bold">
        -i
       </b>
       displays a table of all network interfaces.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

## 4.4.4 Configure iptables

### Configure Linux iptables 00:00-00:20

In this demo, we're going to look at iptables, the default firewall for Linux systems. You configure iptables from the from the command line. We aren't going to cover everything about iptables because that's a vast subject that goes way beyond the scope of this course, but we are going to introduce the topic.

### Firewall and Filter Table 00:20-00:47

We know that a firewall is a part of a computer system, or network, that is designed to block unauthorized access while permitting authorized communications to hosts. Let's start by talking about the filtering table. A filter table has three of what's know as chains. The input chain applies rules to packets coming into the system. The forward chain is for packets being routed through the system. And the output chain is for locally generated packets sent out from the system.

### Install and Update iptables 00:47-01:38

Let's look at our iptables. I have a Linux system running here, and I want to open the terminal, or command line. I'll select it. My terminal application is right here. But if it wasn't listed, I could type 'terminal' in the Search box.

iptables is almost always preinstalled on Linux systems. But if it is not, we can run a command to install or update it. If it is installed, running this command won't hurt anything, so let's go ahead and do that now. To install or update iptables, we have to run this as a root user, so we need to use the sudo command. So, let's type in 'sudo apt-get install iptables'. Linux prompts me for my password, so I'll type that in right here. We can see it tells us that iptables is already installed, and I have the latest version. We are good to go here.

### Check Default iptables 01:38-02:00

The first thing I want to do is see what's currently configured. Remember that Linux is case sensitive, so pay attention to that when you type in commands. I'm going to clear the screen by typing .clear.. Let's type in 'sudo iptables -L'. Notice that the policy is set to Accept for all three chains.

### Block ICMP with iptables 02:00-03:45

Let's say our Linux system is getting a very large number of ping requests, so we decide to block echo requests. We can do this with iptables. Let's jump over to a Windows 10 workstation. I'm going to ping my Linux system just to be sure they can communicate. I know that the IP address for the Linux system is 192.168.0.7, so let's type 'ping 192.168.0.7' and press Enter. You can see I get a response. Now let's jump over to our Linux system and block pings.

Okay, I'm back on the Linux system. I'm going to clear the screen again. To block pings, I need to enter the following command: 'sudo iptables -A INPUT -p icmp --icmp-type echo-request -j DROP'. Remember that this is case sensitive. With this command, the -A tells it I want to add a rule, the -p specifies the protocol. There are a whole lot of switches you can use, but we only use a couple here. We also told iptables to drop the request. We also could have told it to reject the request. The difference is that if we drop it, the system responds as if there isn't even a system there. It does nothing except drop the request. Reject, on the other hand, responds with a message saying the destination port is unreachable. That might tell a hacker that there is something there, but it's not replying.

Now let's go back to our Windows 10 workstation once more and try to ping again. I'm going to type .ping 192.168.0.7. and press Enter. You see that I get request timed out messages back, so the rule is working.

### Summary 03:45-04:03

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we talked about iptables. We ran the command to install and update iptables. We looked at the iptables default policies and then configured a simple rule to drop ping requests to our Linux system.

## 4.4.5 Configure iptables Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Chains
- Actions performed
- Example iptables commands

### Chains

The Linux iptables firewall utility uses policy chains (sets of rules) to allow or block network traffic. When a connection is initiated to your system, iptables looks for a matching rule. If it doesn't find one, it uses the default action in the tables. Be aware that iptables almost always comes pre-installed on any Linux distribution.

The filter table in iptables has three chains. The following table describes them.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Chain
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Input
    </td>
    <td>
     This chain controls the behavior for incoming connections. For example, if a user attempts to ping the system, iptables attempts to match the IP address and port to a rule in the input chain.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Forward
    </td>
    <td>
     This chain is used for packets leaving the system. These are incoming connections that aren't delivered locally. In other words, the traffic is not destined for the router; the router forwards the traffic to the
      destination device.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Output
    </td>
    <td>
     This chain is used for outgoing connections. For example, if you ping testout.com, iptables checks
      its output chain to see what the rules are regarding ping and testout.com before allowing or denying the ping request.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Actions Performed

You can accept, drop, or reject the connections. After you define your accept rules, you should create a rule to drop all other traffic to prevent unauthorized access to the system.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Action
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Result
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Accept
    </td>
    <td>
     Allows the connection.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Drop
    </td>
    <td>
     Drops the connection. For example, an IP address in a rule with a drop action pings your system; the request is dropped. No response
      is sent to the user.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Reject
    </td>
    <td>
     Rejects the connection, but will send a response back. This lets the sender know that the traffic reached a
      system, but was rejected.
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>

### Examples iptables Commands

The following table describes commands for iptables. Keep in mind that these are only a few examples; there are many more iptable commands.

<table>
     <thead>
      <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
       Action

      Command
      </th>
     </tr></thead>
     <tbody>
      <tr>
       <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        List current rules
       </th>
       <td>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         sudo iptables -L
        </b>
       </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
       <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Clear current rules
       </th>
       <td>
        <b class="fw-bold">
         sudo iptables -F
        </b>
       </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
       <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Save iptables changes (Ubuntu)
       sudo /sbin/iptables-save

The command may be different on other Linux systems.
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
Drop all incoming traffic
</th>
<td>
<b class="fw-bold">
sudo iptables -A INPUT -j DROP
</b>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
Block connections from 192.168.0.254
</th>
<td>
<b class="fw-bold">
sudo iptables -A INPUT -s 192.168.0.254 -j DROP
</b>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
Block SMTP mail on port 25
</th>
<td>
<b class="fw-bold">
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -j REJECT
</b>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
Allow SMTP mail on port 25
</th>
<td>
<b class="fw-bold">
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 25 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
<br>
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 25 -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
</b>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
Allow HTTP traffic on port 80
</th>
<td>
<b class="fw-bold">
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp --dport 80 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
<br>
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp --sport 80 -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
</b>
<div class="info" data-block="
         To allow HTTPS, you would use port 443.
        "><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width:20px"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
To allow HTTPS, you would use port 443.
</span></div></div></div></div>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
Allow HTTP traffic on port Allow HTTPS traffic on port 443
</th>
<td>
<b class="fw-bold">
sudo iptables -A INPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports 80,443 -m conntrack --ctstate NEW,ESTABLISHED -j
ACCEPT
<br>
sudo iptables -A OUTPUT -p tcp -m multiport --dports 80,443 -m conntrack --ctstate ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
<b class="fw-bold">
</b>
</b>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
