---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 4.1 Manageable Network Plan
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- When you develop a manageable network plan, what should you keep in mind as you prepare to document your network?
- Which elements of the network are identified when you map the network?
- What steps should you perform to protect the network?
- How can you ensure that all network devices have access, but still maintain security?
- What must you keep in mind to control user access and ensure network security?

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Manageable network plan
     </td>
     <td>
      A process created by the National Security Agency (NSA) to assist in making a network manageable,
          defensible, and secure.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Milestone
     </td>
     <td>
      A component of a manageable network plan that indicates an action or event.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
     </td>
     <td>
      <p>
       1.6. Explain the security concerns associated with various types of vulnerabilities.
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Improper or weak patch management
        <ul>
         <li>
          Firmware
         </li>
         <li>
          Operating system (OS)
         </li>
         <li>
          Applications
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
      </ul>
      2.1. Explain the importance of security concepts in an enterprise environment.
      <ul>
       <li>
        Configuration management
        <ul>
         <li>
          Diagrams
         </li>
         <li>
          Baseline configuration
         </li>
         <li>
          Standard naming conventions
         </li>
         <li>
          Internet protocol (IP) schema
         </li>
        </ul>
       </li>
       <li>
        Geographical considerations
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## 4.1.1 Manageable Network Plan

## 4.1.2 Manageable Network Plan 2

### Manageable Network Plan 2 00:00-00:30

In this lesson, we're going to focus on milestones 5 through 8 of creating a manageable network plan.

Before we do that, let's recall the first four milestones: prepare to document, map your network, protect your network, and access your network. Milestone 5 through 8 are controlling user access to your network, managing updates in the organization, managing baselines, and documenting the network.

### Control User Access to Your Network 00:30-01:36

Let's start with milestone 5, controlling user access to your network. One of the most important aspects of networking management is implementing the principle of least privilege. You should always start by limiting users to the least amount of privileges required to perform their day-to-day duties.

A normal user account should never have administrative privileges to the local system or the domain unless absolutely necessary. Administrator access creates security concerns, as there's a temptation to use an administrator account to perform day-to-day work because it can do more. System administrators should only use an administrative account when it's required for the task at hand.

This means that all users, including system administrators, should use standard user accounts to complete day-to-day work. Using an administrative account to browse the web or to read emails opens a significant security risk. If an exploit manages to enter the system through an infected email or by browsing compromised websites, it could gain administrative access to the system.

### Use Role-Based Access Controls 01:36-03:31

Users require different permissions depending on their job function. Implementing role-based security provides a method for giving users exactly what they need in accordance with the principle of least privilege. For example, the Power User is given a certain set of privileges that are different from the User Admin's.

Once all the privileges are determined, users can be added to the role. When members are added to a role, they're granted the system privileges assigned to the role, and they inherent those privileges. Typically, these roles are used for system administration rather than file system rights. Groups are more appropriate for that function.

You should also consider prohibiting users from installing software. If a user downloads and installs malware from the internet, the infection could spread to other systems on your internal network. If a user needs to install software, they should contact a system administrator who can verify that the software is legitimate and doesn't contain malware.

In addition, you should set account expiration dates. In a computer network, employees are constantly hired, transferred, and fired. It's easy for an administrator to forget to delete a user account for a user who's no longer with the organization. As a result, you could end up with valid user accounts for employees that are long gone. This creates a security risk.

You should also develop a policy to disable or remove accounts when a user leaves. Suppose a former employee is angry at the organization that they used to work for. If it's active, they could use their old account to access and compromise the system. To prevent this from happening, set account expiration dates. This causes all user accounts to expire after a certain amount of time. If the employee is still with the organization, re-enable that user account. If the employee isn't with the organization anymore, their account will be disabled.

### Manage Updates in the Organization 03:31-05:01

All right, let's move on. Milestone 6 is keeping your systems patched and updated. Software developers are constantly fixing bugs and security holes and improving the software they develop.

You should establish an update management process for all operating systems and applications on all workstations, servers, and network infrastructure devices on your network. You should patch these systems on a regular schedule after appropriate testing and vetting, and critical updates should be prioritized and applied as soon as possible after their release. Don't forget to include updates for mobile devices that aren't continuously connected to the network.

Whenever possible, it's best to automate the update process to ensure all systems are updated. If the process isn't automated, it's likely that systems will be missed. For example, you might configure all your Windows workstations to automatically download and install updates as they become available.

Instead of configuring multiple workstations to redundantly download the same update files, you can further streamline the update process by implementing Microsoft's Windows Server Update Services, or WSUS. This decreases the amount of network bandwidth required to download and install updates because the WSUS server will download one copy of the necessary updates for all the Windows operating systems in your organization. You'll then reconfigure the Windows workstations to get their updates from the WSUS server instead.

### Manage Baselines 05:01-06:57

Milestone 7 covers baseline creation. Creating baselines can be a daunting task for systems administrators. It generally requires them to analyze critical systems, general systems, and users' workstations to develop standards. These standards are used for comparison and evaluation of the entire network. The baseline is the minimum requirements for hardware, software, and network statistics.

To begin, for each application, you should specify the approved version number, the reason the application is needed, when it was approved and by whom, and any network ports and protocols the app employs.

Next, establish the criteria and process for adding an application to the approved list. Don't allow end users to purchase, download, and install applications without approval. This helps you ensure that the application is secure and doesn't contain malware. You should also establish a process for testing new applications and adding them to the approved list so that the end users can do what they need to do.

Create baselines for workstations, servers, routers, firewalls, and switches. Then analyze those baselines to identify security misconfigurations. Over the years, Microsoft has introduced several new security enhancements to Windows Server and Workstation. You should consider implementing their new web browser safeguards, such as Windows Defender Application Guard.

Keep in mind that baselines, once created, become obsolete in a short time. As such, they should be reviewed periodically or when something changes, such as software update, new software, equipment changes, etc. This ensures that baselines stay relevant and the organization runs more efficiently, smoothly, and securely.

The last milestone in a manageable network plan is documenting all the processes and procedures for your network.

### Document Your Network 06:57-08:00

Milestone one prepares you to create these documents.

You should set up your documentation system using all the milestones we've detailed and then use that information to document your network and processes.

We discussed creating a process for getting an application on to the approved list. Document that process. If you purchase a new system and deploy it in the network, document that process. If you dispose of a system, document the process you're going to follow to complete this task securely.

You also need to document your procedures. For example, if a security exploit occurs on the network, you need to know exactly how to respond to that security breach. So—you guessed it—document the procedure. In time, you'll have a complete set of documentation and accountability. The hardest part is setting it up and going through everything. Maintaining the documentation becomes easy and straightforward.

That's it for this lesson. We discussed milestones 5 through 8 of a manageable network plan. We discussed limiting users' abilities, the concept of least privilege, and how to keep systems updated and secure.

### Summary 08:00-08:20

We talked about creating and maintaining baselines, and we concluded with documenting the entire network using all eight of the manageable network plan's milestones.

## 4.1.3 Manageable Network Plan Facts

This lesson covers Manageable Network Plan.

### Manageable Network Plan

The Manageable Network Plan is a process created by the National Security Agency (NSA) to assist in making a network manageable, defensible, and secure. The process identifies a series of milestones for creating a manageable network plan, offers suggestions, gives crucial security tips, and provides references.

The milestones to develop a Manageable Network Plan are:

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     No.
    </th>
    <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Milestone
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     1
    </td>
    <td>
     Prepare to Document
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Prepare to Document means establishing the process you will use to document your network. A useful document:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Is easy to use
      </li>
      <li>
       Includes enough detail
      </li>
      <li>
       Documents the important things
      </li>
      <li>
       Uses timestamps
      </li>
      <li>
       Is protected with restricted access and possibly encryption
      </li>
      <li>
       Has a printed hard copy kept in a secure location
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     2
    </td>
    <td>
     Map Your
     <br>
     Network
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Map Your Network ensures that you are aware of all the components of the network and that you know where the physical
        devices are. The steps are:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Create a map of the network topology.
      </li>
      <li>
       Create a list of all devices.
       <ul>
        <li>
         Don't forget to include wireless devices.
        </li>
        <li>
         Use a network scanner and then confirm manually with a room-by-room walkthrough.
        </li>
        <li>
         Identify who is responsible for each device and detail other information, such as IP address, service tag, and
              physical location.
        </li>
        <li>
         Consider using a database file to store the information.
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Create a list of all protocols being used on the network by using a network analyzer. Consider removing unauthorized
          devices and protocols from your network.
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     3
    </td>
    <td>
     Protect Your Network
     <br>
     (Network Architecture)
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Protect Your Network (Network Architecture) identifies the following steps to protect your network:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Identify and document each user on the network and the information the user has access to
      </li>
      <li>
       Identify the high-value network assets
      </li>
      <li>
       Document the trust boundaries
      </li>
      <li>
       Identify the choke points on the network
      </li>
      <li>
       Segregate and isolate networks
      </li>
      <li>
       Isolate server functions
      </li>
      <li>
       Physically secure high-value systems
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     4
    </td>
    <td>
     Reach Your Network
     <br>
     (Device Accessibility)
     <br>
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Reach Your Network (Device Accessibility) helps to ensure that all of the devices on your network can be easily accessed
        while still maintaining the device's security. Accessibility includes physical access as well as remote access.
        Important considerations include:
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Do not use insecure protocols
      </li>
      <li>
       Use Windows Group Policies to administer Windows systems
      </li>
      <li>
       Make sure that remote access connections are secure
      </li>
      <li>
       Automate administration as much as possible
       <br>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     5
    </td>
    <td>
     Control Your Network
     <br>
     (User Access)
    </td>
    <td>
     Control Your Network (User Access) ensures network security but restricts user access. It accomplishes the following:
     <ul>
      <li>
       Limits a user to the least privilege required for the user's job
      </li>
      <li>
       Limits local admins to an absolute minimum
      </li>
      <li>
       Uses regular user accounts for day-to-day work
      </li>
      <li>
       Uses role-based access controls
      </li>
      <li>
       Doesn't let users install software
      </li>
      <li>
       Sets account expiration dates
      </li>
      <li>
       Disables or removes accounts when a user leaves the organization
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     6
    </td>
    <td>
     Manage Your Network
     <br>
     Part I
     <br>
     (Patch Management)
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Manage Your Network Part I (Patch Management) establishes an update-management process for all software on your
        network.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Patch all systems on a regular schedule
       <ul>
        <li>
         Apply critical patches whenever they are released
        </li>
        <li>
         Include mobile devices that connect to the network infrequently
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Automate the patching process
      </li>
      <li>
       Consider using Windows Server Update Services (WSUS)
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     7
    </td>
    <td>
     Manage Your Network
     <br>
     Part II
     <br>
     (Baseline Management)
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      Manage Your Network Part II (Baseline Management) provides rules for establishing a baseline for all systems.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Create an approved application list for each class of device on the network
      </li>
      <li>
       Establish the criteria and process for getting an application on the approved list
      </li>
      <li>
       Verify apps before adding them to the allowed list
      </li>
      <li>
       Create device baselines
      </li>
      <li>
       Secure web browsers
      </li>
      <li>
       Check baselines for security misconfigurations.
       <br>
       Consider using the Microsoft Security Compliance Toolkit (SCT).
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     8
    </td>
    <td>
     Document Your Network
    </td>
    <td>
     Document Your Network is the step in which you create the documentation for your network.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Processes
      </li>
      <li>
       Procedures
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody></table>
