---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 12.5 Digital Forensics
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Why is a chain of custody important in an investigation?
    </li>
    <li>
     What importance does a provable timeline of events play in admissibility of digital forensic evidence?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to take a bit-by-bit copy of the logs?
    </li>
    <li>
     How does the order of volatility help you decide what to secure and preserve first?
    </li>
    <li>
     What is a digital forensic artifact?
    </li>
    <li>
     How does provenance play a vital role in digital forensics?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Create a forensic drive image with FTK, Guymager, and DC3DD.
    </li>
    <li>
     Examine a forensic drive image with Autopsy.
    </li>
</ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Legal hold
    </td>
    <td>
     A formal notice sent out to all employees of a company when litigation is eminent. The notice instructs
        all employees to retain electronically stored information (ESI). A legal hold, also called a litigation hold.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Chain of custody
    </td>
    <td>
     A record of the handling of gathered evidence. This gives all parties involved confidence that no
        evidence tampering has occurred.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hashing
    </td>
    <td>
     A way to encrypt data. In forensics, data that’s copied is run through a hashing algorithm.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Provenance
    </td>
    <td>
     Provenance demonstrates that the digital evidence gathered came from the documented origin.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     2.1 Explain the importance of security concepts in an enterprise environment.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Hashing
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      4.1 Given a scenario, use the appropriate tool to assess organizational security.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Forensics
       <ul>
        <li>
         dd
        </li>
        <li>
         Memdump
        </li>
        <li>
         WinHex
        </li>
        <li>
         FTK imager
        </li>
        <li>
         Autopsy
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
     <p>
      4.5 Explain the key aspects of digital forensics.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Documentation/evidence
       <ul>
        <li>
         Legal hold
        </li>
        <li>
         Video
        </li>
        <li>
         Admissibility
        </li>
        <li>
         Chain of custody
        </li>
        <li>
         Timelines of sequence of events
         <ul>
          <li>
           Time stamps
          </li>
          <li>
           Time offset
          </li>
         </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
         Tags
        </li>
        <li>
         Reports
        </li>
        <li>
         Event logs
        </li>
        <li>
         Interviews
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Acquisition
       <ul>
        <li>
         Order of volatility
        </li>
        <li>
         Disk
        </li>
        <li>
         Random-access memory (RAM)
        </li>
        <li>
         Swap/pagefile
        </li>
        <li>
         OS
        </li>
        <li>
         Device
        </li>
        <li>
         Firmware
        </li>
        <li>
         Snapshot
        </li>
        <li>
         Cache
        </li>
        <li>
         Network
        </li>
        <li>
         Artifacts
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       On-premises vs. cloud
      </li>
      <li>
       Integrity
       <ul>
        <li>
         Hashing
        </li>
        <li>
         Checksums
        </li>
        <li>
         Provenance
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Preservation
      </li>
      <li>
       E-discovery
      </li>
      <li>
       Data recovery
      </li>
      <li>
       Non-repudiation
      </li>
      <li>
       Strategic intelligence/counterintelligence
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 12.5.1 Forensic Documentation and Evidence

### Forensic Documentation and Evidence 00:00-00:15

In this video, I'll cover several legal terms associated with electronic forensic investigations. These terms may seem simple, but they have different meanings in the legal world that are important for you to understand.

### Legal Hold 00:15-00:52

A legal hold, also called a litigation hold, is a formal notice sent out to all company employees when litigation is eminent. The notice instructs employees to retain any electronically stored information, or ESI. This includes emails, memos, invoices, and other electronic communications they may've stored. But it doesn't stop there. This also covers printed, physical copies of documents. The purpose behind a legal hold is to help ease the burden of the IT and legal teams when it comes to gathering evidentiary documentation. It's not feasible to expect these teams to retrieve all relevant documents immediately.

### Video 00:52-01:28

Video evidence in criminal cases has become the norm. Video evidence may come from security cameras or videos files on a computer. The key to ensuring video evidence is admissible is being able to prove that the video hasn't been manipulated in any way. A video is likely to be excluded if the company can't meet this standard. Caution must be taken when a team retrieves a video to ensure that they preserve its integrity. This evidence can be very persuasive, and many times it's even the deciding factor in a legal case. But on the other hand, illegal, sloppy, or reckless video gathering might prove fatal to a case.

### Admissibility 01:28-02:05

Admissibility is a term we use when discussing evidence and whether it's allowed in court. For evidence to be admissible, it must meet certain criteria. First, one must obtain it by legal means. If evidence is discovered through an illegal procedure, that evidence isn't legally admissible. In the law, we call this fruit of the poisonous tree. This is why it's so important to understand what you are and aren't allowed to do when you collect evidence. Some good advice is to retain the services of a legal expert, law enforcement, or outside help. Evidence must have an unbroken chain of custody as well, and the evidence must be relevant to the case you're gathering it for.

### Chain of Custody 02:05-02:46

Chain of custody is a record of the passing on of gathered evidence. This gives all parties involved confidence that no evidence tampering has occurred. The chain of custody begins immediately upon gathering a piece of evidence. Whether it's you or someone else, the person who gathers the evidence is responsible to secure it so that it's protected from any harmful conditions. For example, you should probably place a hard drive inside of an anti-static bag or something of the sort. Then you should seal it inside of an evidence bag that has the date, time, originator, description, and spaces for any additional markings or identification. Make sure that everything's tamper-resistant, or you could find yourself being investigated along with the evidence.

### Timeline of Events 02:46-03:24

For digital forensic evidence to be admissible, you must include a provable timeline of events. This helps you show that the malicious actions were indeed done to you and not to someone else. It also proves who specifically is most responsible for what occurred. You obviously don't want innocent people getting caught up in your legal proceedings. For example, if our timeline shows that an event took place in the year 2018 and it's 2020, this fact would render our evidence inadmissible. The sequence of events must correlate with the person or persons suspected of being involved. Without a proper timeline, it's impossible to complete any legal proceedings.

### Timestamps 03:24-03:58

Timestamps provide an exact date and time of an event. This could be for document creation, editing, moving, downloading, or uploading. This also applies to data packets that you extract from networks, emails, instant messages, or any other file. A timestamp must also be accurate for it to have admissibility. Any inaccurate or missing timestamps create doubt, so it's important for the IT admin to ensure that all servers, wireless access points, security cameras, and physical entry points are recording timestamps correctly.

### Time Offset 03:58-04:53

Time offset refers to the time a computer reads as compared to Greenwich Mean Time, or GMT. All offsets use GMT as a baseline. From there, you're either plus or minus a number of hours. For example, if my computer is set to Mountain Daylight Time, I'm -7 hours or GMT

-06:00. This is really important for you to understand because a computer uses different formats to record timestamps. So you must understand offset to show consistency. In a Windows NTFS file system, all timestamps are actually logged using GMT, which is helpful. Documents manipulated within the NTFS show local time within the document, but they'll actually be GMT when you retrieve them.

Time offset also helps you to make timestamps correlate with your present evidence. If the victim's computer is set to London Time and the attacker is determined to be in Australia, the time offset becomes important to ensuring that the evidence correlates.

### Tags 04:53-05:29

When you collect evidence, all of it needs to be tagged. This includes cables, monitors, machines, and even machine ports. Tags provide a clear, precise, and consistent way to mark evidence, and they need to be very specific. For example, let's say that you're collecting evidence on a personal computer that has power cables, Ethernet cables, USB ports, and monitor cables. You must tag all these items. You should even tag empty ports. The exact location where each cable or other device was found must also be on the tag. For your evidence to be admissible, you must do the tagging right the first time.

### Reports 05:29-06:04

Once the evidence analysis is done, you need to write up your findings. This needs to be a very well-written document. You need to present the information in a legally appropriate and defensible way, so you should probably engage the services of a lawyer. This document needs to be self-contained, meaning that all the necessary information is somewhere inside. It shouldn't contain references or links to other documents. It should plainly describe the incident and the computer forensic team's response. Lastly, you should report what happened during the evidence acquisition, how the evidence was analyzed, and what conclusions you came to.

### Event Logs 06:04-06:43

Computers, servers, and other network appliances produce event logs. These logs show exactly what happened on a specific computer. These are also timestamped. An event log might contain the affected process, application, or protocol. Once again, you must exercise caution when you retrieve any data at all from a system. Trying to recover event logs from the actual machine is dangerous. A bit-for-bit copy should be taken first, and then you can recover evidence from the copy. Remember that event logs are only as reliable as the system they come from. This is why making sure that all network client computers have their time set accurately by a time server is so important.

### Interviews 06:43-07:07

Conducting interviews with people involved in a computer crime is useful. But the interviews also need to be done with caution and in a way that makes them legally admissible. You should record all interviews with video or audio devices. You should timestamp these artifacts as well, and you must conduct these interviews in accordance with local, state, and federal law. It's probably best to have your legal team handle these interviews to avoid serious legal breaches on your part.

### Summary 07:07-07:33

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we learned the procedures you must follow when you gather and preserve evidence. We discussed legal holds, chain of custody, timestamps, tagging evidence, and writing reports. Any of these procedures could make or break your legal case, so learning how to go about this evidentiary process is vital to any electronic forensic investigation.

## 12.5.2 Forensic Acquisition of Data

### Forensic Acquisition of Data 00:00-00:15

A forensic investigator gathers evidence from many sources. In this lesson, we will discuss software and hardware sources of potential evidence. We will also discuss the order in which the evidence needs to be gathered.

### Order of Volatility 00:15-00:59

The process of capturing volatile data follows the order of volatility. We need to preserve the most volatile data first and work our way down to data that is more persistent. If an attack is underway, your computer forensics response team is probably going to capture volatile data before trying to gather data from the hard disk or turning the system off.

The order of volatility is: RAM, Swap Files/PageFiles, Hard Drive, Remote Logs, Archived Data. These items must be investigated in this order so that potential evidence is not lost.

Each one of these items has its own challenges and potential dangers when acquiring forensic data. Let's look at tools and approaches to acquire and retain data from these items.

### Disk 00:59-01:34

In a computer forensics investigation, the data on the hard disk drive is a key piece of evidence. A lot of the things that we do on a computer system are saved in some way on the hard disk drive, including virtual memory. A wealth of data is there.

In addition, information attached to deleted files may still be on the disk. Therefore, the hard drive itself is a goldmine of evidence for a prosecutor. Caution must be exercised when making a copy of the hard drive. A regular file-for-file copy is not good enough. It needs to be a sector-by-sector copy that includes data formerly deleted but still accessible.

### Random Access Memory 01:34-02:00

RAM is the most volatile of all computer data storage. RAM is cleared when a computer is shutdown. Once gone, it cannot be recovered. Data in RAM can be copied as long as the system is running, but should be done only by someone with proper training. The data stored in RAM can have valuable information. Many times malware like worms, viruses and trojan horses are created as memory-resident only. This makes catching them difficult.

### Swap/Page File 02:00-02:27

Swap files, or page files, are a virtual extension of RAM. An OS is designed so that if you are running low on RAM it can place not-in-use information into the swap or page file on the hard drive to be used later. An admin can determine how much space to allocate to page files. For the forensic investigator, this is another potential source of evidence. The page file data does not automatically delete at shutdown unless you change the default settings.

### OS 02:27-02:57

The OS is a virtual treasure trove of evidence. File systems like NTFS and Ext4 are the roadmap to where data is stored. There is also a registry which is a database that stores information about all the applications installed on a computer. Registry keys are folder-like objects that store application-specific

information for each application stored in the registry. The recycle bin is where deleted files are placed. Also the print spooler can be examined to see the print history from a computer.

### Device 02:57-03:25

In the last 30 years technology devices have changed dramatically. With the increase of digital devices there is an equal increase in devices that may require forensic examination. These devices contain all the evidence a forensic investigator needs. Each device, such as smart phone, tablet, laptop and smart watch all share common elements, namely RAM, CPU, logs and storage space. A trained investigator must be familiar with all platforms.

### Firmware 03:25-03:51

Firmware is the basic level of software that controls some hardware. Firmware is stored in read-only, persistent memory. This non-volatile memory does not self-delete and in many cases is not updated. Firmware has become vulnerable to different attacks like rootkits and even steganography. The hard drive has firmware that can be manipulated by malicious actors. Extracting this data is difficult and requires specialized training and expensive tools.

### Snapshot 03:51-04:13

A snapshot can be a useful tool in capturing the exact state of running systems. Snapshots capture volatile data in an ever-changing environment. This tool is not a substitute for the sector-by-sector copy of a disk. The snapshots can be saved for future examination. Snapshots are valuable only if taken of a running system that is currently experiencing an attack.

### Cache 04:13-04:38

A cache is stored data that is used to improve the speed of the computing process. There are different caches in a computer system. Address resolution protocol, or ARP, matches IP with MAC addresses. This protocol has a built-in caching component that saves CPU time and network bandwidth by referring to the cache. Internet browser history is also cached and can provide valuable evidence regarding search history.

### Network 04:38-04:59

Network forensic data plays an important role in an investigation. Network appliances that are important in an investigation are firewall, router, switches, domain controllers, DHCP servers, application servers and web proxy servers. There are also applications on the network including intrusion detection and intrusion protection systems.

### Artifacts 04:59-05:19

In computer forensics an artifact is an object that contains forensic value. Forensic value is evidence found on hardware or in areas like registry hives that show indicators of compromise. These indicators are a digital sign of a breach. It is important to preserve these artifacts and understand their value to a forensic investigation.

### Summary 05:19-05:43

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we learned the procedure used to prioritize evidence gathering called the order of volatility. We discussed different areas within a network that contain potential evidence such as cache, network appliance, OS, disks and RAM. We also covered artifacts and how they are defined and identified.

## 12.5.3 Forensic Tools

### Forensic Tools 00:00-00:12

In this lesson, we're going to discuss some of the forensic tools on the market. Some of the tools are Linux-specific, and other others are Windows-centric.

### Forensics Tools 00:12-00:31

Investigating and gathering evidence for court action is part of handling computer security. These computer forensic investigations require specialized tools to gather evidence without making changes to the devices or their stored data. These tools include imaging software, data extraction tools, and advanced search capabilities.

### Data Gathering Tools 00:31-01:30

Let's take a look at three of these tools and how they work. We're going to talk about dd-CLI, Memdump, and WinHex.

The first tool, dd, is an extraction tool. It's one of the oldest forensic tools still in use. It's used in Linux and Unix systems to create bit-by-bit copies of a physical hard drive without mounting the drive beforehand. It uses the dd-CLI command, and it's easy to employ. A raw image is created for forensic analysis, and the user has multiple file extension choices.

Memdump is another data gathering tool. It aggregates the data in the volatile RAM memory from devices. Normally, a second tool is needed to search through all the data in a memdump file.

WinHex is a powerful disk and universal hexadecimal editor. It's used in digital forensics for data recovery. WinHex is Windows-compatible and can be used with a whole bunch of options, making it a very versatile forensic tool.

### Imaging and Investigation 01:30-01:58

Now let's move on to imaging tools. Imaging tools must create exact copies of data without making a single change—not even one bit. FTK Imager is a powerful tool that allows the investigator to acquire, preview, and copy data thoroughly and forensically. Autopsy is exactly what it sounds like—a forensic tool that investigators use to thoroughly examine extracted data, pictures, and empty disk space in order to determine exactly what happened.

### Summary 01:58-02:26

And that's it for this lesson. We talked about Forensics tools and how they fall within a few categories; data gathering, imaging, and extraction. We discussed what forensic tools must be able to do--create an exact image of a disk with perfect integrity and then search large amounts of data for specific file extensions, hidden files, deleted data, and root cause analysis.

## 12.5.4 Create a Forensic Drive Image with FTK

### Create a Forensic Drive Image with FTK 00:00-00:26

In this demonstration, we're going to discuss creating a forensic disk image with the Forensic Toolkit. It's better known as the FTK Imager. In our scenario, we need to examine a hard drive from a malicious employee's workstation. Before you try this for real, make sure that your organization considers you qualified to do this and that you have the backing of your legal department.

### Use a Write Blocker 00:26-02:24

The first thing we need to do is create an image of the employee's hard drive. Like I said, we're going to use the FTK Imager to do this. Remember, when we're conducting a forensic investigation, we don't want to modify the evidence in any way, shape, or form. If this situation were to be litigated for some reason—"say, the employee gets fired and then sues the company--then the prosecutor could say that when we conducted our forensic investigation, we planted the evidence on the hard drive. That's why it's crucial to make sure that that hard drive isn't changed in any way during the forensics investigation.

We're going to create an image of that hard drive, and we're going to do all of our testing, examining, and investigative work on the imaged copy of the hard drive, not on the actual hard drive. Once we've created that image, we'll use a second tool to analyze the contents of the hard drive to see if we can find anything that's questionable.

The first thing we need to do is get an image of the hard drive. To do this, we have to connect the hard drive to this forensic workstation. That's problematic because as soon as you connect a hard drive to a Windows workstation, Windows immediately starts writing little bits of data to the drive—"but we don't want to modify the drive in any way.

So we can't just directly connect the drive to a SATA connector on this workstation. Instead, we need to implement a write blocker, also known as a forensic disk controller. Its job is to block writing to the hard drive. It allows us to connect the employee's hard drive to the write blocker, and then we connect the write blocker to our machine, usually with a USB cable. This prevents any write operations coming from the operating system on the forensic computer from going through to the device that we're analyzing. So remember, when you're conducting a forensic investigation on a hard drive and you're going create an image, always use a write blocker to prevent any type of write operation from occurring on that drive. I've already set this system up with a write blocker, and it's ready to go.

### Create a Forensic Image 02:24-05:53

Let's go ahead and use the FTK Imager to create an image that we can analyze. By the way, FTK Imager is a free tool. A lot of the forensic software is very, very expensive, but you don't have to spend a lot of money to be able to conduct a good forensic investigation. There are a lot of free, open source, and legitimate tools for forensic investigations.

Within Access Manager, let's click on Add Evidence Item. Then we have to specify what we're going to add. We're adding a physical drive because I've connected it to a write blocker on this particular system. Click Next.

We have to specify which drive we want to create the image from. You'll notice, when I click the dropdown list, it picked all of the hard drives on this system. You need to be very careful that you don't choose the wrong one. For example, if I were to choose Physical Drive 0, that's my local workstation hard disk drive. We'd be creating an image of my local system, not the actual drive that's being used for evidence. Physical Drive 1 is the drive that I've connected to the write blocker. That's what we want to choose. I'll click Finish. We'll come over here, to the Physical Drive 1, and we'll right-click on it. We want to Export Disk Image.

Under Image Destination, we'll click Add. Then we can specify which type of destination image we want to create. Raw (dd) is the default selection because it's probably one of the most widely used imaging format for forensics, so we'll just leave it set the way it is. Click Next.

We need to document the evidence. Remember, whenever you're conducting a forensic investigation, you need to document everything. In fact, you should take a picture of the entire setup that you're using to analyze this hard disk drive. You should take a picture of the drive, take a picture of how it's connected to the write blocker, and take another picture of how the write blocker is connected to the computer. You might even want to take a video of the entire process.

Under Evidence Item Information, you'll want to assign a case number. Let's do —˜1 2 3 4' and evidence number —˜5 6 7 8'. Then we'll give it a unique description. We'll enter —˜HD from Mary Worley.' I'll put —˜Dana Fellows' down as the examiner. Click Next.

We have to specify where we want to store the image file on my computer. I have a folder for my forensic images. Let's create a new folder, —˜1 2 3 4 Mary Worley'. I'll put in the same thing here for Image Filename, —˜1 2 3 4 Mary Worley'. If we want to, we can fragment the image--that is, break the image file into multiple pieces. This is a small hard drive. I'm going to set that to zero, which basically means we'll have one image file for the entire hard disk. Click Finish.

We want to make sure that Verify the images after they are created is checked. It's also a good idea to create a directory listing of all the files and the image after they're created, so check that box too. It can be useful for when you're searching for information. Click Start. At this point, the imaging process has started. It'll take a little bit of time to complete, especially if you're going to be working with a big hard disk drive. I'm going to pause the recording now and come back when it's done.

Okay. As you can see, it's almost done verifying the image. In just a few seconds, the process will be complete.

### MD5 Hash and SHA1 Hash 05:53-06:09

Notice that it's created two different hashes, an MD5 Hash and a SHA1 Hash. For both of these, the hashes match. The MD5 Hash matched, and the SHA1 Hash matched as well. That's good. That's exactly what we want to see. I'll go ahead and hit Close.

### Verify Image File 06:09-07:01

Before we end this demo, let's verify that the image file has been created. I'll open File Explorer and navigate to the folder where we saved the image. Here are the various pieces of information that were pulled from the hard drive to create it. We have the image file itself. There's a CSV document that contains a listing of all the filenames and directory names. Last on the list, we have a document that provides a nice summary of the image creation process. It gives us the case number, our evidence number, the description, the examiner, all the information we filled out earlier, and the information about the hard drive itself from Mary Worley's computer. At this point, our image file is created. The next step of the process is to use another tool, such as Autopsy, to examine the image.

### Summary 07:01-07:26

That's all for this demo. We used FTK imager to capture a forensic image of a hard drive. We discussed the importance of using a write blocker to keep data from getting tampered with and the importance of examining a copy of the disk, not the original disk itself. Then we made a copy the image and verified that it was saved to the folder we created.

## 12.5.5 Create a Forensic Drive Image with Guymager

### Create a Forensic Drive Image with Guymager 00:00-00:35

There are several ways to capture a disk image as part of a forensic investigation. In this demo, we're going to do this with a program called Guymager. Guymager has a graphical user interface, making it a bit easier to use than a command line tool. We're on the Guymager home page, and you can read more about it there. One thing I want to point out on the website is that Guymager does come on several live CDs and security operating systems. We're going to use Kali Linux for our demo, so let's close the browser and get started.

### Write Blocker and Linux Version 00:35-01:11

I want to mention a couple of things before we get started. Normally, you'll want to have a write blocker between the disk you're imaging and the forensic workstation that you're working from. In a virtual environment, such as my test system here, I can't really do that. The write blocker would keep data from being written to the disk we're wanting to image, which is very important.

The other thing I want to point out is that Kali has a live CD version that has a lot of forensic tools that my copy doesn't have. Keep that in mind if you're setting up your own lab and be sure to investigate the right copy of Linux that will work best for you.

### Launch Guymager 01:11-02:11

I said that Guymager is a GUI tool, but it does need to be run as a Sudo user. There's a shortcut for it under the Application Launcher, so if I go up here, down to Forensics, and then over to Forensic Imaging Tools, I see Guymager. When it launches, it warns me that it needs to be started with root rights in order to perform acquisitions. That's no fun, and but we can get around it. I'll launch it from the terminal. So let's click No, I don't want to continue here.

I'll go up here and launch a terminal window. After it loads, I'll type —˜sudo guymager' and press Enter. It prompts me for a password to continue as an admin, so I'll type that in here. Just a reminder, when you type passwords in Linux, the cursor doesn't move, and you think that you're not really typing. This is normal; it's a security feature. Your keyboard isn't broken. I press Enter, Guymager is launched, and now I can acquire images.

### Acquire an Image 02:11-03:57

I'll make this full screen to take advantage of all the space. Right away, I notice I have three disks, or partitions. This first one is my hard drive for my Kali machine. I know that because it's a 20-gig disk, and that's what I used. This second one is what I'm after. I know this is it because it's a 2-gig disk, which I plugged in. To acquire an image, I simply right-click and choose Acquire Image from the menu.

Now we have a few choices for the file format. This one is called Expert Witness Format. When we select it, we have the option to fill out all this additional data that would be needed if this was part of a legal investigation. We're not going to pick that one. We're going to pick the Linux dd raw image. This is the format I'm going to use when it's time to examine the image content. Over here, we can split the file into smaller pieces. I have a smaller drive, so I could uncheck that box, but I'll just leave it as-is.

Now I need to put the images somewhere. I have a temp folder for these images, and I'll navigate to /home/dana/temp and click Choose to select that directory. I need to supply a filename, so I'll just enter —˜Image1'. The program puts in the extension, so we don't have to do that. Below here, I'm going to make sure this box is checked so that we have the hash value of the image Calculate MD5. We're also going to verify the image after acquisition. Click Start to get the process going.

We have a very small drive, so this shouldn't take long. In fact, if you look at the progress, you can see we're moving along very nicely. It looks like it's finished, and the indicator light is green. We're done with this part, so let's verify that it acquired the images and saved. I'll minimize Guymager for now.

### Verify Image Creation 03:57-04:28

Now let's go up to our Application Launcher and open up File Manager. Remember, we saved the image in a temp directory under /home/dana, and here it is. I'll slide the mouse over and double-click on temp to open it and view the contents. I can see three files. It does look like Guymager broke my file into two, since I checked the box to split files over 2 gigs. The third file is a log file. Let's open up that log and take a look.

### Log File 04:28-05:18

My log file has some info about Guymager itself--the version, timestamp, and so on. I'll scroll down here a little ways. Now I see some information about disk size and other data. I want to go down a little farther, to here. This is more relevant information about the acquisition of the disk. I have the device name, /dev/sda, and the size, format, and so on. Down here, I can see the MD5 hash calculation.

Finally, here, we can see when the image was captured, how long it took, and the speed. At the very bottom, we can see the three files that were created when we ran the program. At this point, our disk is captured. The next step is to examine the contents with another forensic software tool designed to do so.

### Summary 05:18-05:27

That's it for this demo. In this demo, we used Guymager to capture a drive.

## 12.5.6 Create a Forensic Drive Image with DC3DD

### Create Forensic Disk Image with DC3DD 00:00-01:32

In this demonstration, we're going to create a forensic drive image. It's very important that you understand you can't use standard file copying utilities to create a forensic drive image. You can't use, say, Windows Explorer or File Explorer. Those utilities copy files that have an entry, a record, in the allocation table of the partition where it resides, so it only copies data that's associated with a file or folder in the file system. When you're conducting a forensic investigation, you need all the data on that hard drive, especially the data that's not associated with a particular file or file in the file system, but is still on the hard disk drive. Basically, we're looking for stuff that's been deleted—"stuff that someone may be trying to hide. We need to use a drive imaging utility to do this. There are a variety of utilities that you can use. Some cost a lot of money; some cost practically nothing. We're going to use the latter option in this demonstration today.

In this demo, we'll use dc3dd to obtain a raw image of a hard drive. dc3dd was developed at the Department of Defense's Cyber Crime Center, and it's basically an enhanced version of the open source dd command with added features for computer forensics. One of the main characteristics of dc3dd is that it offers the possibility of hashing on the fly with multiple algorithms (MD5, SHA-1, SHA-256, or SHA-512). You'll want to use a write blocker between your machine and the disk you're obtaining an image from.

### Linux Storage Devices 01:32-02:20

Before we start looking at how to create the drive image, you need to understand how Linux storage devices are addressed by the Linux system. It's kind of difficult to understand when you're new to Linux, but all storage devices on Linux systems are addressed using a device file located in the /dev directory. If a process needs to write information to a hard disk drive, it writes it to a specific file in the /dev directory, which then redirects the IO data to the appropriate hardware device, such as a hard disk drive.

What we need to do is figure out what the device name is for the drive that we want to image. There are a variety of command line utilities you can use to do this. One way to find the forensic image is to use fdisk and the sudo fdisk 1 parameter.

### Use fdisk to Identify Disks 02:20-03:32

I think we have enough information to get started. We could go to a terminal and start dc3dd, but I'm going to go up to the Application Launcher and start it from there. I'll come down to Forensics and then select Forensic Imaging Tools. I see dc3dd, so let's click on it and launch it.

The only reason I wanted to start it this way is so that you can see we have a nice manual here to learn more about how to use it. I'm not actually going to go over any of this in this information right here, but I will when we type some of the commands in a minute. I'm going to type —˜clear' and get a clean screen to work with.

I like to see what disks I have to work with by typing —˜sudo fdisk' with the —˜-l' parameter. Press Enter. Now put in the sudo password. The first disk we'll look at is this one, /dev/sdb. It's a 20-gig disk, and I know that this is the one with my Kali Linux installed on. But this isn't the disk I want to image.

If I go up a little, I see a second disk, /dev/sda. This one is 2 gigs. This is the one I want to image. Make sure you know which disk you're working with when you do this. I'll come down here and type —˜clear' to clear the screen.

### Using the dc3dd Command to Create a Forensic Drive Image 03:32-05:22

Now we need to type in the command to create the image, tell it where to find the disk, where to store the copy, which hash to use, and name the log file. I'll go ahead and type that in and then come back in a second and explain the command.

Okay, I have the command typed in. The first part is —`sudo dc3dd`. This just tells Linux to run our command as root, or basically like an admin in Windows. The next part, —`if=/dev/sda`, is my input file. That's what the letters I-F stand for, input file. After that, we need to specify where our image will go. O-F stands for output file, so we've typed in —`of=/home/dana/temp/imaged2.img`. That's the path where I'll save my image file, and I named it —˜image2.img'. Next, we'll use —˜hash=sha256' for our hash type. We could use MD5 or one of the others types we listed in the intro of this demo, but this will work fine. The last thing we have is —˜log=/home/dana/temp/image2.log'. As you can guess, this is just a log file, which is very important to have along with the disk image. It's going to be located in the same directory as our disk image. We'll look at after we create it.

This all looks really good. I'll press Enter to start the disk imaging. Down here, we can see the copy progress. Keep in mind that this is a very small disk without a lot of data, so it's going quickly. It looks like it's done. Down here, I can see when it completed. Up here is the location of the image file. I'll go up and close out of our terminal. Now let's go look in our temp file, confirm that it copied over, and look at our log file.

### Verify Results 05:22-05:50

Next, we'll go up to Application Launcher and over to File Manager. I'll go over to my temp folder and double-click on it to open it. Here are my two files, my image file and my log file. Let's open that log now. It shows us things like the time the image started, the size, where the file was located, our hash value, the output filename, and the time it completed. Our next step would be to use another forensic tool to examine the image itself.

### Summary 05:50-06:03

And that's it for this demo. We used the command line utility dc3dd to capture a forensic image from a disk.

## 12.5.7 Examine a Forensic Drive Image with Autopsy

### Examine a Forensic Drive Image with Autopsy 00:04-00:34

After a computer forensic investigator captures an image of a drive, they need to examine it. Autospy is a popular examination tool. It's digital forensic software that's free, open source, and said to have most of the features that you'd find in commercial digital forensics tools. Some of the features include, hash matching, registry analysis, and web analytics, and the ability to do a keyword search. For our demo, we're going to use Autopsy to analyze a disk that has been previously captured and saved to my hard drive.

### Add Data Source 00:34-02:43

Double-click on it to start it. Sometimes it takes a minute or so for it to fully launch. We want to create a new case. Click on that option. We'll give it a case name, —˜1 2 3 4 Mary Worley'. Let's specify the directory where we're going to store the information we're about to create. Let's put it in the same directory as our image file. We'll keep all the data together. I'll actually create a folder for it and name it —˜Autopsy'. I'll select the folder we just created and then click Next. Enter in a case number, —˜1 2 3 4 Mary Worley'. I'll put the examiner's name in here. I'll hit Finish.

This next part is going to take a minute or two while it creates the case and gathers all the files. I'll pause the demo while this is running.

Okay, that took several minutes, and now I'm presented with the Add Data Source page. We have to specify what we want to analyze. We're going to analyze a disk image or VM file. Click Next. We need to specify what image file we want to look at. It's in a folder called Forensic Images under 1 2 3 4 Mary Worley. There's the image file that we created a minute ago. Hit Open. We need to set our time zone. I'm in Mountain Time, so I'll scroll down until I find that and select it. Click Next.

We have to specify exactly what we want to look for. This tool uses what's called Ingest Modules. An ingest module is basically just a piece of software that looks for a particular type of information in the image file. You can come over here and specify what you want to look for. For example, you could go under Keyword Search and specify what type of information you want that particular module to look for. We want to look for all of this information here, so I'll check all the boxes and click Next. Now let's go ahead and click Finish.

The process of analyzing the image file has started. It can take quite some time to complete, depending on the size of disk and amount of data. In my test environment, I don't have a very large disk or very much data, so it should happen pretty quickly. But I'll go ahead and pause the demo while it runs.

### Identify Suspect Content 02:43-05:43

At this point, the image file has been thoroughly examined by the Autopsy tool, and the results are displayed here on the left, organized by the type of data or the view of the data that you want to use. It's very useful. For example, it sorts the data by the file type extension.

Let's click on Images. There are 43 of them. Let's see what we have. If I click this one, WACC classroom.jpg, I can see the image down here, in a preview pane. It looks like a picture of a computer lab or classroom.

See this one up here, with the red X? This is a file that was deleted on the hard drive. Of course, as you probably know, when you delete something, you don't actually delete it at all--you just delete the pointer, or reference to it. The file won't go away until the drive is formatted or overwritten. Even then, files are sometimes recoverable. Down in the preview, this looks like a screen shot of something.

I'll click on Videos. Over in the listing, I have four videos. One's been deleted. When I click on Audio, my list is the same as it was for videos, so Autopsy must recognize that there are audio files as part of the videos. Under Documents, I have some Microsoft Office documents. I could export those out and look at the contents in the supported programs if I wanted to. I have a few PDF documents as well, along with some plain text files. Once again, a few of these have been deleted, as you can see by the red X. I have no executable files to look at, so we'll skip those. Autopsy does give us a list of just the deleted files, all grouped together. That is handy if I was focused just on what Mary may have deleted and might be trying to hide.

I have a few more categories. We have Recycle Bin and something called User Content Suspected. I'll make my way down to the email addresses. Out of concern for confidentiality, I'm not going to open this up because I'm not sure exactly what's on this disk. Just to clarify, when we see things like emails addresses, IP addresses, URLs, and so on, it does not mean email accounts configured on the system, but any email that shows up on the disk in a document, spreadsheet, etc.

Under IP addresses, I see 0.1.2.3. This might be a simple false positive because the format is somewhat like an IP address. Under phone numbers, I have some phony-looking phone numbers. This looks like something from TV, since they have a 555 prefix. I have a bunch of URLs listed. This is handy for seeing where the person has been spending their time on the web.

I have Hashset Hits, but there's nothing there to see. Right under this, I actually have Email Messages, but there aren't any to look at on this disk. I have Credit Cards down here. Once again, I'm not going to click on those and open them because I'm not sure what I might find. And now we're at the bottom of the list.

### Additional Features 05:43-06:03

Now, there are entire courses and degree programs on how to use this product and the whole legal process that goes along with it. This demo is a very brief overview of what the software is capable of doing. We didn't even look at things such as geolocation, timeline, report generation, or other features—"there's a lot more to learn!

### Summary 06:03-06:12

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we used Autopsy to examine a disk image.

## 12.5.8 Forensic Data Integrity and Preservation

### Introduction 00:00-00:09

Today, I'm going to discuss the importance of proving forensic data integrity.

### On-Premises Network vs. Cloud Network 00:09-00:54

The most striking difference between the cloud approach and the on-premises approach is access to the infrastructure that produces an operation's data. An on-premises network assures that the forensics team has full access to the affected hardware, systems, and applications. A cloud network is much different and also depends heavily on the cloud strategy a company chooses. For example, one option is SaaS, which stands for Software as a Service. If it's a SaaS platform being used, hardware accessibility is difficult and requires working with the cloud provider. On the other hand, if it's an Infrastructure as a Service platform, or IaaS platform, access to the system logs and other relevant data is much more accessible for the IT security team.

### Right-to-Audit Clauses 00:54-01:16

A contract is drawn up when a company and a third-party vendor agree to do business. One of the terms that a company should insist on is a right-to-audit clause, which should include precise terms for notification, frequency, and process. Additionally, sanctions for failing an audit should be precisely defined. These clauses are immensely important to a company's non-compliance plan.

### Regulatory/Jurisdiction Issues 01:16-01:41

Within a contract between company and vendor, the company should specify where all data is to be stored geographically. The clause that specifies jurisdiction should apply to data at rest as well as all backup data. New regulations are holding companies responsible for all data that contains PII, or personally identifiable information. This means that your company must know exactly where customers' data is at all times.

### Data Breach Notification Laws 01:41-02:11

In the last decade, governments in all fifty states and around the world have established details on how a data breach must be communicated to the compromised parties. Each governing body has unique notification requirements, but what's important is that a company understand the applicable laws that most concern their operations. Typically, these laws specify when a company must send a notification, how it must be sent, and in what form. Not all data breaches require immediate notification, and some don't require any at all.

### Data Integrity 02:11-02:29

Data integrity is fundamental to your operation's security. When you gather forensic data evidence, it's imperative that it have proven integrity. If you can't prove its integrity, it may be inadmissible in legal proceedings. Solid forensic procedures are formulated with integrity at the core.

### Hashing 02:29-03:34

Hashing is a means of data encryption. In forensics, data that's copied is then run through a hashing algorithm. In digital forensics, MD5 is a 128-bit hash represented by a 32-character hexadecimal string.

The other popular hashing algorithm is SHA-1, which is a 160-bit hashing algorithm. This all might seem a bit confusing, so let's look at an example.

When we hash data using MD5, it produces a 32-character hexadecimal value. With the phrase The dog has fleas, we get the following value—9f20fbd2565c9d558a24e43f8aadaa71. If we change just one letter, the hash only changes for that letter, right? No, that's the beauty of a hash.

Let's change our original phrase to The dog had fleas. The only change is the letter s in has to d in had. What's the hash now? 340e45536a29080d62ccb7755e7d2649. Not even close to the same! This is why this type of hashing is used when complete copies are made of a hard drive. If the two values aren't exactly the same, the data ends up completely unrecognizable.

### Checksums 03:34-03:53

Checksums are the reason that we use hashing algorithms. Forensic investigations need to prove that data that was copied is accurate and exact. It can't vary in any way from the original data source. If it does, the hash values or checksums will end up completely different. This brings into question the integrity of the data being investigated.

### Provenance 03:53-04:12

Being able to prove the origin of digital evidence is called provenance. Provenance demonstrates that the evidence you gathered came from the intended investigative target. If you can't prove the provenance of the evidence's origin, or even if it's in question, the data can lose its evidentiary value and you can lose your case.

### Summary 04:12-04:42

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed the differences between gathering data from an on-premises network vs. a cloud network. We looked at a contract clause called a right-to-audit clause. We also discussed how data jurisdiction is decided and how important it is for you to understand your area's data breach notification laws. Last of all, we spoke about forensic evidence and its integrity through hashes, checksums, and provenance.

## 12.5.9 Forensic Investigation Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul>
   <li>
    Key areas of digital forensics
   </li>
   <li>
    Sequence of events
   </li>
   <li>
    Digital data collection
   </li>
</ul>

### Key Areas of Digital Forensics

There are procedures you must follow when you gather and preserve evidence. Any of these procedures could make or break your legal case. Learning how to go about this evidentiary process is vital to any electronic forensic investigation. Become familiar with procedures related to the following areas.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Area
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Legal hold
     </td>
     <td>
      A legal hold, also called a litigation hold, is a
            formal notice sent out to all employees of a company when litigation
            is eminent. The notice instructs all employees to retain
            electronically stored information (ESI). This includes emails,
            memos, invoices, and any other stored document. A legal hold also
            covers printed, physical copies of documents.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Video
     </td>
     <td>
      Video evidence in criminal cases has become the
            norm not the exception. Video evidence may come from security
            cameras or videos stored on a computer. The key to ensuring that
            video evidence is admissible is the ability to prove the video has
            not been manipulated. If this cannot be done, the video is likely to
            be excluded.
      <p>
       Caution must be taken when retrieving videos to ensure that the
              integrity of the video is preserved. Video evidence can be very
              persuasive and many times even the deciding factor in a legal
              case. It can also be fatal to a case if shown to have been
              gathered in an illegal, sloppy, or reckless manner.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Admissibility
     </td>
     <td>
      Admissibility refers to evidence allowed to be
            used in court. For evidence to be admissible, it must meet certain
            criteria. First, it must be obtained by legal means. If evidence is
            discovered through an illegal procedure, then the evidence will not
            be admissible. In law, this is called fruit of the poisonous tree.
      <p>
       This why it is so important to understand what you are and are
              not allowed to do when collecting evidence. Retaining the services
              of a legal expert, law enforcement, or other outside help is
              recommended.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Chain of custody
     </td>
     <td>
      Chain of custody is a record of the handling of
            each piece of gathered evidence. This gives all parties involved
            confidence that the evidence has not been tampered with.
      <p>
       The chain of custody begins immediately upon gathering the
              evidence. The person who gathers the evidence is responsible to
              secure it so that it is protected from any harmful conditions and
              cannot be tampered with. For example, a hard drive would need to
              be placed inside an anti-static bag, maybe even a Faraday bag. It
              would then be sealed inside an evidence bag that would have date,
              time, originator, and description of evidence it contains. The
              evidence bag would document all persons who take custody of the
              evidence. Evidence bags are tamper-resistant. Any signs of
              tampering must be investigated.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

### Sequence of Events

Forensic investigations require that an accurate and provable sequence of events be established. There are several items that help to create this accurate narrative.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Item
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Time stamps
     </td>
     <td>
      Time stamps provide an exact date and time of an
            event. The event could be when a document is created, edited, moved,
            or downloaded. It could be when a video is captured or a picture is
            taken. Time stamps also apply to emails, instant messages, video
            downloads, video uploads, and data packets extracted from a network.
      <p>
       A time stamp must be accurate for admissibility. An inaccurate or
              missing time stamp creates doubt and can lead to evidence being
              inadmissible. It is important for you to ensure that all servers,
              wireless access points, security cameras, and physical entry
              points are recording time stamps correctly.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Time offset
     </td>
     <td>
      Time offset refers time on a computer or device
            compared to Greenwich Mean Time (GMT). All offsets use GMT as a
            baseline from which you are either + or – a number of hours. For
            example, if your computer is set to Mountain Daylight Time, then it
            is -7 hours or GMT -06:00. Because a computer will use different
            formats to record time stamps, you must understand the offset needed
            to show consistency.
      <p>
       In a Windows NTFS file system, all time stamps are logged using
              GMT not the local time zone. Documents manipulated within the NTFS
              will show local time within the document but GMT when retrieved.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Tags
     </td>
     <td>
      Evidence must be tagged when collected. Tags
            provide a clear, precise, and consistent way of marking evidence.
            Everything must be tagged, including cables, monitors, machines, and
            even the ports on a machine. The tags need to be very specific.
      <p>
       For example, you are collecting evidence on a personal computer
              that has power cables, an Ethernet cable, USB ports, monitor
              cables, etc. All these items must be tagged. Even empty ports must
              be tagged as such. The exact location each cable or other device
              must also be on the tag. For evidence to be admissible the tagging
              must be done correctly the first time.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Reports
     </td>
     <td>
      Once the analysis of the evidence is&nbsp;done,
            you must report the findings.&nbsp;You should present the
            information&nbsp;in a well-written document that is legally
            appropriate and&nbsp;defensible.&nbsp; Therefore, you should
            probably&nbsp;engage the services of a lawyer to&nbsp;write this
            document to make sure&nbsp;it's done correctly.
      <p>
       This document needs to be&nbsp;self-contained, meaning
              that&nbsp;all necessary information necessary&nbsp;is in the
              document.&nbsp; It shouldn't contain references&nbsp;or links to
              other documents.&nbsp;Everything needed is&nbsp;in the document
              itself.&nbsp;It should:
      </p>
      <ul>
       <li>
        Describe the incident.
       </li>
       <li>
        Describe the computer&nbsp;forensics team's response.
       </li>
       <li>
        Report what happened during&nbsp;the acquisition of evidence.
       </li>
       <li>
        Describe how the&nbsp;evidence was analyzed.
       </li>
       <li>
        Report what was found in the evidence.
       </li>
      </ul>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Event logs
     </td>
     <td>
      Computers, servers, and other network appliances
            produce event logs. These logs are time stamped and show exactly
            what happened on a specific computer or appliance. The event log may
            contain the affected process, application, protocol, or other
            pertinent information.
      <p>
       Caution must be exercised when retrieving any data from a system.
              Trying to recover event logs from a machine is dangerous. Do a
              bit-for-bit copy first. Recover evidence from this copy. Remember,
              event logs are only as accurate and reliable as the system from
              which they come. Therefore, you should make sure that all client
              computers on a network have the time set by a time server and
              rechecked on a regular basis.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Interviews
     </td>
     <td>
      Conducting interviews with people involved in a
            computer crime is a useful tool. The interviews need to be done with
            caution and in a way that makes them legally admissible. All
            interviews should be either video recorded or audio recorded. These
            artifacts must be accurately time stamped and conducted in
            accordance with local, state, and federal laws. The interviews
            should be handled by legal professionals to avoid improper or
            inadmissible testimony. Interviews can be a powerful investigative
            tool if done correctly.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

### Digital Data Collection

A forensic investigator gathers potential evidence from many software, hardware and other sources. There is an order in which the evidence needs to be gathered.

The order of volatility describes the process of capturing data based on the volatility of the data. The most volatile data should be captured first followed by progressively less volitile (more persistent) data. If an attack is underway, your computer forensics response team will probably capture data as follows.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Source
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Random Access Memory
     </td>
     <td>
      RAM is the most volatile of all computer data
            storage. RAM is cleared when a computer is shutdown. Once gone, it
            cannot be recovered. Data on RAM can be copied as long as the system
            is running but should be done only by someone with proper training.
            The data stored on RAM can have valuable information. Many times
            malware such as worms, viruses and Trojan horses are created as
            memory-resident only. This makes identifying them difficult.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Swap/page file
     </td>
     <td>
      Swap files or page files are a virtual extension
            of RAM. An OS is designed so that if you are running low on RAM, it
            can place files not in use into the swap or page file to be accessed
            later. An administrator can determine how much space to allocate to
            page files. For the forensic investigator, this is another potential
            source of evidence. The page file data does not automatically delete
            at shutdown unless you change the default settings.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Hard drive
     </td>
     <td>
      The data on the hard disk drive is a key piece of
            evidence in&nbsp;a computer forensics investigation.&nbsp;A lot of
            the things that we do&nbsp;on a computer system are saved
            in&nbsp;some way on the hard disk drive,&nbsp;including data in
            virtual memory.&nbsp;A wealth of data is there.
      <p>
       In addition, information attached to&nbsp;deleted files may still
              be on the disk.&nbsp; Therefore, the hard drive itself is
              a&nbsp;gold mine of evidence for a prosecutor. Caution must be
              exercised when making a copy of the disk. A regular file-for
              file-copy is not good enough. It needs to be a sector-by-sector
              copy that includes formerly deleted but still accessible data.
      </p>
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Remote logs
     </td>
     <td>
      Remote logs are logs that document events on a
            computer system and are stored on a device other than the device
            that the events occurred on.
     </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
     <td>
      Archived data
     </td>
     <td>
      Archived data are documents, logs, etc. that are
            not used regularly and are stored on a device other than the device
            under forensic investigation.
     </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

In the last 30 years technology has changed dramatically. With the increase of digital devices there is an equal increase in the number of devices that may require forensic examination. These devices can contain the evidence a forensic investigator needs. Each smart phone, tablet, laptop, and smart watch shares common elements, namely RAM, CPU, logs, and storage space. A trained investigator must be familiar with all platforms.

Network forensic data plays an important role in an investigation. Network appliances that can be important in a forensic examination include: firewalls, routers, switches, domain controllers, DHCP servers, application servers, and web proxy servers. Also included are network applications including intrusion detection and intrusion protection systems.
