---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 12.2 Mitigation of an Incident
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Why would you use whitelisting?
    </li>
    <li>
     How can you protect network endpoints?
    </li>
    <li>
     When would you use the mitigation technique of quarantining?
    </li>
    <li>
     Why is it important to keep a firewall configuration up-to-date?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Distinguish between whitelisting and blacklisting applications.
    </li>
    <li>
     Use isolation, quarantining, containment, and segmentation appropriately.
    </li>
    <li>
     Create a runbook for a network.
    </li>
    <li>
     Indentify when to use a playbook.
    </li>
</ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Application whitelisting
    </td>
    <td>
     A list that has the names of applications permitted to pass through the firewall.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Application blacklisting
    </td>
    <td>
     A list of blocked applications.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Endpoint security solution
    </td>
    <td>
     An application designed to protect network endpoints from malicious attacks. Endpoints are all devices
        connected to a network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Quarantine
    </td>
    <td>
     A mitigation technique used to separate a malicious file or application.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Isolation
    </td>
    <td>
     A technique used to take a breached appliance off a network
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Containment
    </td>
    <td>
     A mitigation technique that puts a suspected malicious file in a place where it cannot interact with other devices on the
        network.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Runbooks
    </td>
    <td>
     A compilation of routine operations and procedures used by a network admin.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Playbooks
    </td>
    <td>
     A set of procedures detailing the steps to take when an event has been detected.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     4.4. Given an incident, apply mitigation techniques or controls to secure an environment.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Reconfigure endpoint security solutions
       <ul>
        <li>
         Application whitelisting
        </li>
        <li>
         Application blacklisting
        </li>
        <li>
         Quarantine
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Configuration changes
       <ul>
        <li>
         Firewall rules
        </li>
        <li>
         MDM
        </li>
        <li>
         DLP
        </li>
        <li>
         Content filter/URL filter
        </li>
        <li>
         Update or revoke certificates
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Isolation
      </li>
      <li>
       Containment
      </li>
      <li>
       Segmentation
      </li>
      <li>
       Secure Orchestration, Automation, and Response
       <ul>
        <li>
         Runbooks
        </li>
        <li>
         Playbooks
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 12.2.1 Reconfigure and Protect Endpoints

### Reconfigure and Protect Endpoints 00:00-00:30

Endpoints are a key attack plane for malicious actors. Endpoints include laptops, PCs, servers, smartphones, or any other device that connects to your network. Reconfiguring endpoint protection is an ongoing protection process which consists of whitelists, blacklists, and quarantines. In this lesson, we'll discuss what each of these terms mean and the role they play in network security.

### Whitelists 00:30-01:27

Whitelisting allows an IT admin to control the applications, IP addresses, URLs, and email addresses that are allowed onto the network. Whitelisting can be done at the firewall level, the email-server level, or with applications that automate your updates and virus protection. Whitelisting is a great tool, but it's much more labor-intensive than blacklisting. It also creates the possibility that a needed application may get blocked and interrupt workflow.

Remember that whitelisting denies access to everything that's not on the whitelist. This is called implicit deny. It's one of the strictest access control measures.

Let's take a look at how whitelisting actually works. When a packet or other request arrives at a network, the whitelist is checked to see if the packet has been approved. If it's not on the list, the network drops it. If the packet is on the list, it's then sent on its way.

### Blacklists 01:27-02:38

Blacklisting is the opposite of whitelisting. An IT admin can list the IP addresses, URLs, and email addresses that are to be blocked from the network. This is done at the firewall level, the email-server level, or with applications, just like whitelisting. Blacklisting is considered easier to implement since the lists tend to be smaller. It's also possible to subscribe to blacklists produced by security companies. These lists are usually updated regularly. These subscription blacklists are compiled from thousands of companies that report malicious applications, IP addresses, and email addresses, which makes setting up a blacklist a more automated process. A best practice for utilizing blacklisting is to integrate a next-generation security platform that offers a cloud-based master threat database.

Here's what happens with blacklisting: When a packet or other request arrives at the network, the network checks the master database of blacklisted items. If an item is on the list, it may be destroyed or even sent to quarantine. If the packet isn't identified in the master database, it's allowed into the network.

### Quarantines 02:38-03:27

Since endpoints are a prominent attack place, they become pivot points into deeper network assets when attacked. When the antivirus program finds a malicious item, it quarantines it. This means that the item is placed into a folder where it can't cause any damage to the network. If it's eventually found to be non-malicious, it can be released.

It's also possible to quarantine the endpoint itself. If this is done, the endpoint is no longer able to receive any network traffic. This can be problematic if the attacked endpoint is a server or proxy server. A quarantined proxy server is a worst-case scenario, as the assets that sit behind it on the network are all blocked.

Quarantining picks up where blacklisting ends. The quarantine lasts indefinitely unless an IT admin approves a release.

### Summary 03:27-04:17

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed how endpoint protection is vital to a secure network. The first thing we discussed was whitelisting. This is the process of granting access to specific applications, URLs, and IP addresses. Remember, if it's not on the list, it doesn't get in!

Blacklisting utilizes a database that contains known malicious applications, URLs, and IP addresses. A blacklist blocks the items on it from getting to network endpoints. This list is usually provided by a web-based service.

Quarantining is rendering a malicious item neutral until it can be identified as a threat or non-threat. A non-threat can be released, while a threat will most likely be disposed of.

## 12.2.2 Reconfigure and Protect Endpoints Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Application endpoint protection
- Endpoint security configuration

### Application Endpoint Protection

Applications are allowed to enter a network via a firewall. In order to keep malicious apps from entering, you must create rules that allow or deny specific applications. This process is referred to as whitelisting and blacklisting. You can also quarantine an application. The following table describes these processes.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Process
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Whitelisting
    </td>
    <td>
     Whitelisting allows an IT admin to control the applications, IP addresses, URLs, and email addresses
        that are allowed onto the network. Whitelisting can be done at the firewall, email server, or using applications that automate updates and virus protections. Whitelisting is a great tool, but it is much more labor intensive than blacklisting.
     <p>
      Whitelisting might mistakenly fail to list a needed application and interrupt work-flow. Remember, whitelisting denies access until the item is added to the whitelist. This is called implicit deny. This is part of access control and is more strict than blacklisting.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Blacklisting
    </td>
    <td>
     Blacklisting is the opposite of whitelisting. An IT admin can list the applications, IP addresses, URLs, email addresses, etc., that are to be blocked from the network. This can also done at the firewall, email server and application.
     <p>
      Blacklisting is considered easier to do since the lists tend to be smaller. It is also possible to subscribe to blacklists
        produced by security companies. These lists are updated regularly, sometimes daily. These subscription blacklists are
        compiled from information provided by thousands of companies that report malicious applications, IP addresses, and email addresses. This makes using
        blacklisting easy and automated. The best practice for utilizing blacklisting is to integrate a next-gen security platform
        that offers a cloud-based master database of threats.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Quarantining
    </td>
    <td>
     When anti-virus software finds a malicious item it quarantines it. This means that the item is placed in a folder where it
        cannot cause any damage to the network. If it is found to be non-malicious it can be released from quarantine.
     <p>
      Endpoints are the devices that attach to a network, such as desktop computers, laptops, smartphones, printers, etc. Endpoints represent a prominent attack vector.  These endpoints, when attacked, become pivot points to deeper network assets. An endpoint can be quarantined.
        If this is done, the endpoint will no longer receive network traffic.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Endpoint Security Configuration

Endpoint security requires constant maintenance. This may mean changing an endpoint security configuration to improve the security posture. The following table describes tools you can use to enhance endpoint security.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Tool
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Firewall rules
    </td>
    <td>
     Define how a firewall is configured. The natural state of firewall is implicit deny, meaning that communication must be allowed by a network admin. Firewall rules specify the data that can enter or leave the internal
        network. These rules are the frontline security for the network and must be carefully configured.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Mobile device management (MDM)
    </td>
    <td>
     Mobile devices now outnumber traditional network devices. These endpoints present unique challenges since
        the devices are not physically protected by locked office doors. MDM offers a way to easily monitor and manage mobile devices including updates, data encryption, and remote wipe of a compromised device.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Data monitoring apps
    </td>
    <td>
     A concern of organizations is data being downloaded. A variety of
        applications help an admin monitor data. These apps monitor data in all three states: at rest, in
        motion, and in use.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Content filters
    </td>
    <td>
     Content filtering is a strategy to keep employees from accessing unauthorized content on the web. Online URL filtering is based on selected objectionable content. This tactic is also used with emails
        that help to combat phishing. Filtering is often deployed at the firewall but can also be deployed using other
        tools.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     URL filters
    </td>
    <td>
     URL filters are a database of URLs that are allowed (whitelisted) or prohibited (blacklisted). While
        the database can be created and maintained manually, most are regularly updated databases that are SaaS in
        nature. Machine learning is used to improve the accuracy and the speed of updating these database.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Certificate status databases
    </td>
    <td>
     Trust is an imperative when accessing websites. Certificates provide this trust. Certificate databases provide easy access to certificate status (valid, invalid or revoked). Certificates can be revoked for any number of reasons by the CA. Many browsers block websites with invalid certificates.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 12.2.3 Isolate and Containment

### Isolate, Containment and Segmentation 00:00-00:10

Today, we'll be discussing isolation, containment, and segmentation within network security. Let's get started.

### Isolation 00:10-00:49

Isolation is limiting the ability of a compromised asset or application from doing more harm to the network or its assets. This can be accomplished in a few different ways. One way is to practice process isolation. This ensures that if a process is compromised, only the resources used by that process are at risk. This practice applies to operating systems as well as RAM. In other words, it prevents any process that is limited by access bounds from accessing the resources of another process. This is a trait of a stable operating system. Isolation is considered a preventative security measure since it's implemented before an event is detected.

### Containment 00:49-01:53

Containment is the first step after an event has been detected and identified. This action can take a few forms. An IT admin may disconnect a machine from the network by simply unplugging the Ethernet cable or disabling the NIC. If this network is connected to other networks, this connection may be terminated. The decision to disconnect must be weighed against the amount of data being compromised and the potential loss of forensic evidence. No matter what, the goal of containment is to limit the damage potential of malicious activity.

Containment requires action. Once an IT security analyst detects and identifies a malicious event, they must act. In this scenario, the analyst is monitoring a physical server that must be manually disconnected from network. This means the on-site IT Admin must jump into action as quickly as possible. Time is of the essence since this event threatens the physical server and also the servers in the branch office. This is because the two networks are connected via a VPN. Containment requires that the damage be limited—even if it means taking a server down.

### Segmentation 01:53-02:41

Segmentation is a strategic network design. The concept is simple: keep sections of a network separated so that malicious actors can't pivot within a network. Segmentation can be accomplished through VLANs, software-defined networks, switches, subnetting, or even physical segmentation.

But simply being on a different subnet is not enough. Rules must be implemented to control what kind of communications can occur between assets on the network. Many times, a network admin will create a DMZ. This a virtual area where assets are kept separate from internal network assets. A network with a DMZ may have a single firewall or two firewalls depending on how secure this segment needs to be. No matter the topography, access between the DMZ and the internal network is secure and controlled.

### Summary 02:41-03:01

That's it for this lesson. We discussed isolation and how it's used to protect a network. Next, we talked about containment, which is the first action taken once an event has been detected. We ended by discussing network segmentation and how it can prevent unauthorized access.

## 12.2.4 Isolate and Containment Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Isolation, containment, and segmentation
- Security orchestration, automation and response (SOAR)
- Incident plans

### Isolation, Containment, and Segmentation

Data, whether good or malicious, must be handled correctly. You can use isolation and containment for malicious or suspect data. You can use segmentation as a strategic network architecture tool to prevent outside data from accessing internal network appliances.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Strategy
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Isolation
    </td>
    <td>
     Isolation limits the ability of a compromised process or application from doing more harm to the
        network or its assets. One way to protect the network is process isolation. This
        ensures that if a process is compromised, only the resources that are used by that process are at risk.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Containment
    </td>
    <td>
     Containment is the first step after an event has been detected and identified. This action can take a
        few forms. You can disconnect a machine from the network by unplugging the Ethernet cable or disabling the
        NIC. If a network is connected to other networks, you can terminate those connections.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Segmentation
    </td>
    <td>
     Segmentation is a strategic network design. The concept is simple; keep the sections of a network separated
        so that malicious actors cannot pivot within a network. You can segment using VLANs, software defined networks,
        switches, subnetting, or even physical segmentation. Being on a different subnet is not enough. You must implement rules to control the kind of communications that occur between assets on the network.
     <p>
      You can also
        create a demilitarized zone (DMZ). It is a virtual area where you separate assets from internal network assets. A network with a DMZ may
        have a single firewall or two firewalls depending on how secure the segment needs to be. No matter the topography, access
        between the DMZ and the internal network is access controlled.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Security Orchestration, Automation and Response (SOAR)

SOAR is a platform to compile security data generated by different security endpoints. This compiled information is then sent to a security analyst for further action. SOAR frees an analyst from constantly receiving security alerts as they are generated. Analysts can use parameters to automate solutions for security incidents that meet certain criteria. SOAR:

<ul>
    <li>Gathers alert data and places it in specified location.</li>
    <li>Facilitates application data integration.</li>
    <li>Facilitates focused analysis.</li>
    <li>Creates a single security case.</li>
    <li>Allows for multiple playbooks and playbook step automation.</li>
</ul>

### Incident Plans

As part of the incident response process, you can use playbooks and runbooks together to achieve a more effective response that can be automated and include tasks that are automatically assigned to analysts to complete. These two plans can also help to meet and comply with regulatory frameworks like GDPR or NIST if necessary.

<table>
    <thead>
    <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
        Plan Type
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Runbooks</td>
        <td>
        Runbooks are a condition-based series of protocols you can use to
        establish automated processes for security incident response.
        Assessment, investigation, and mitigation are accelerated with the
        use of a runbook. Even though processes are automated, human
        analysis is still used in some cases.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Playbooks</td>
        <td>
        A playbook is a checklist style document that specifies the steps to
        be taken in response to a threat or incident. The steps are listed
        in the order to be performed. A playbook ensures a consistent
        approach to security issues.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
