---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 12.1 Incident Response
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul>
    <li>
     Why is the chain of custody so important in a forensic investigation?
    </li>
    <li>
     How do you ensure the integrity of collected digital evidence?
    </li>
    <li>
     When conducting a forensic investigation, what methods can you use to save the contents of memory?
    </li>
    <li>
     What would a computer forensic investigator analyze when conducting a live analysis compared to a dead
      analysis?
    </li>
    <li>
     What actions should you take when an incident occurs?
    </li>
</ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul>
    <li>
     Analyze and record forensic evidence.
    </li>
    <li>
     Use a forensic tool to gather and authenticate forensic information from a system.
    </li>
</ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Security incident
    </td>
    <td>
     An event, or series of events, resulting from of a security policy violation. A security incident has adverse effects on
      a company's ability to proceed with normal business.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Incident response
    </td>
    <td>
     <p>
      The action taken to deal with an incident, both during and after the incident.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     First responder
    </td>
    <td>
     The first person on the scene after a security incident has occurred.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Damage assessment
    </td>
    <td>
     A preliminary onsite evaluation of damage or loss caused by a security
      incident.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Live analysis
    </td>
    <td>
     An incident investigation that examines an active (running) computer system to
      analyze the live network connection, memory contents, and running programs.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Dead analysis
    </td>
    <td>
     An incident investigation that examines data at rest, such as analyzing hard drive contents.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Big data analysis
    </td>
    <td>
     An incident investigation that examines all
      types of data used in the organization, including text, audio, video, and log files. The investigation identifies anomalies that led up to the security incident.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Corroborative evidence
    </td>
    <td>
     Evidence or information that supports another fact or detail.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Hearsay evidence
    </td>
    <td>
     Evidence that is obtained from a source who doesn't have personal, firsthand knowledge.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     CompTIA Security+ SY0-601
    </td>
    <td>
     4.2. Summarize the importance of policies, processes, and procedures for incident response.
     <ul>
      <li>
       Incident response plans
      </li>
      <li>
       Incident response process
       <ul>
        <li>
         Preparation
        </li>
        <li>
         Identification
        </li>
        <li>
         Containment
        </li>
        <li>
         Eradication
        </li>
        <li>
         Recovery
        </li>
        <li>
         Lessons learned
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Exercises
       <ul>
        <li>
         Tabletop
        </li>
        <li>
         Walkthroughs
        </li>
        <li>
         Simulations
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Attack frameworks
       <ul>
        <li>
         MITRE Attack
        </li>
        <li>
         The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis
        </li>
        <li>
         Cyber Kill Chain
        </li>
       </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
       Stakeholder management
      </li>
      <li>
       Communication plan
      </li>
      <li>
       Disaster recovery plan
      </li>
      <li>
       Business continuity plan
      </li>
      <li>
       Continuity of operation
      </li>
      <li>
       Incident response team
      </li>
      <li>
       Retention policies
       <br>
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

## 12.1.1 Incident Response Process

### Incident Response Process 00:00-00:44

The incident response process is a set of procedures that are used when a security incident occurs.

First responders are the designated employees that handle this incident for your company. Your organization's network security policies should contain specifications and procedures for first responders. The policies and procedures should explicitly list a first responder's responsibilities.

The incident response process should include the following elements: preparation and training, containment and eradication, recovery operations and documentation, and an after-incident review. Let's look at some general guidelines you can implement to accomplish these goals.

### Preparation and Identification 00:44-01:47

First, an incident response plan needs to be created. Once it's created, frontline employees need to be trained.

Make sure users know the difference between a security incident and a security event. A security event is an outlier and does not require any action. A security incident, on the other hand, requires specialized action by first responders.

This helps prevent the users from trying to intervene because they may make the situation worse or destroy evidence. Train users not to touch anything if they think a security incident has happened or is happening. The user should immediately contact a first responder, and the first responder will take over.

The role of the first responder depends on the organization. A large organization may have a dedicated response team with trained first responders. Smaller organizations probably have individuals within the IT Department who are trained in first responder skills, techniques, and procedures. In either case, those are the individuals to contact if a security event occurs.

### Containment and Eradication 01:47-02:52

When on site, the first thing the first responder needs to do is isolate the threat to prevent further damage and exposure. If needed, secure the scene. The goal is to contain the damage. Initially, the first responder should identify the scope of the security event and determine whether that event is still in progress. If it is in progress, then the first responder should do whatever it takes to shut down the attack, which may be as simple as pulling out a network cable.

The next step in securing the scene is to preserve all evidence. In addition, while securing the scene, the first responder must escalate the issue to the right people within the organization. The organization's leadership needs to be informed because they are held liable for what has happened, and they need to have the correct information. It's critical that the right people are informed of the security event and brought on site.

The first responder won't necessarily fix the issue. This persons performs a technical triage much like paramedics do at the scene of an accident. A different team may come in to perform deeper analysis and collect evidence.

### Recovery 02:52-03:12

After the incident is resolved, it's time to start the recovery process. This includes restoring data, turning servers back on, and repairing broken systems or applications. This is also when the damage and repair needs are assessed. This step is performed by the network admins since they know the backup systems and the needs of the company.

### Documentation and Review 03:12-03:52

In addition, the first responder should document exactly what happened. The first responder should note the time the call is received, what was observed at the site, and what the user who reported the incident said and observed. In this step, screenshots are worth their weight in gold. It's also a good idea to have a second pair of eyes while this documentation is occurring, since these situations tend to be chaotic. All documentation then needs to be gathered and stored together. I also recommend having a "What have we learned?" session after the incident. This will cover topics like what your team did right, what you could have done better, and whether the incident response procedures were good or need improvement.

### Tools For First Responders 03:52-04:19

The tools that first responders need are normally in use by the IT department. Network monitoring applications are vital for establishing a network's normal state, or baseline. This baseline is where most security incidents are identified. A screenshot tool is very useful since some evidence is better used as a picture. And a tested data backup system is essential in order to restore servers without losing days or weeks of work.

### Summary 04:19-04:58

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about the importance of the incident response process. We talked about having a written procedural plan. Then we talked about general guidelines to help first responder achieve those goals, such as notifying the right people, securing the scene, and training users to identify a security event occurs. We talked about recovering data and systems that were affected. We also discussed the need to document all actions taken and review the entire process once it is over. We finished by exploring some of the tools required for incident response, like network monitoring applications.

## 12.1.2 Incident Response Process Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Security incident
- Incident response process

### Security Incident

A security incident is an event or series of events that are a result of a security policy violation. The incident may or may not have adverse effects on an organization's ability to proceed with normal business. It is important to organizations that security incidents are recognized and dealt with appropriately. The following table describes types of security incidents.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Type
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Employee errors
    </td>
    <td>
     Unintentional actions by an employee that cause damage or leave network systems vulnerable to attack.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Unauthorized act by an employee
    </td>
    <td>
     Intentional actions by an employee to do harm to a company's network or data. Also  known as an insider threat.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     External intrusion attempts
    </td>
    <td>
     Intentional actions by a threat actor who is not employed by or associated with an organization in an attempt to exploit attack vectors. The intent of the threat actor is to harm an organization or profit from access to an organization's resources.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Virus and harmful code attacks
    </td>
    <td>
     Tools used by threat actors to disrupt company business, compromise data, or hurt the
        company's reputation
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Unethical gathering of competitive information
    </td>
    <td>
     This is also known as corporate espionage. The goal is to obtain proprietary information in order to obtain a
        competitive advantage or steal clients.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Incident Response Process

Incident response is the action taken to stop an incident in process, collect all data relative to an incident, and implement the appropriate response. An incident response process helps an organization to prevent additional damage from an incident, collect data to be used in the prosecution of the threat actor, and mitigate the damage of an incident. An incident response process should:

<ul>
   <li>
    Define what is considered an incident.
   </li>
   <li>
    Identify who should handle the response to the incident. This person is designated as the 
      first responder.
   </li>
   <li>
    Describe what action should be taken when an incident is detected.
   </li>
   <li>
    Provide a detailed outline of steps to efficiently and effectively handle an incident while mitigating
      its effects.
   </li>
   <li>
    Explain how and to whom an incident should be reported.
   </li>
   <li>
    Explain when management should be notified of the incident and also outline ways to ensure that management is
      well-informed.
   </li>
   <li>
    Be legally reviewed and approved.
   </li>
   <li>
    Be fully supported by senior management and administration with appropriate funding and resources such as camera
      equipment, forensic equipment, redundant storage, standby systems, and backup services.
   </li>
</ul>

## 12.1.3 Incident Response Frameworks and Management

### Incident Response Framework Management 00:00-00:10

In this video, we'll talk about attack frameworks and how they can be leveraged as part of incident response.

### Attack Frameworks 00:10-00:33

The name —attack frameworks— can be misleading. These are not tools used by the bad guys, but tools used by security analysts, first responders, and other IT security specialists. We're going to discuss three:

MITRE ATT@CK, the Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis, and Cyber Kill Chain. These frameworks were developed independently, but now they're used in conjunction with each another.

### MITRE ATT@CK 00:33-00:57

MITRE ATT@CK is a universally accessible database. It contains techniques, tactics, and other operational information about malicious actors. This data has been gathered and aggregated using empirical observations. All of this data is available to anyone for free.

These datasets are used to help companies and people develop cybersecurity plans and identify intrusions.

The Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis 00:57-01:46
The Diamond Model has four points: Adversary, Victim, Capabilities, and Infrastructure. There is always a direct connection between Adversary and Victim. There is also a direct connection between Capabilities and Infrastructure. The way this model is used depends on the security analyst. Normally, the analysts and first responders use these points (called meta or core features) to find and predict different attacks. For example, If you can identify the types of victims and why they were attacked, then the analyst/first responder can make an educated guess about who is behind the attacks and potential future victims. This information can be used to inform data in the MITRE ATT@CK database. There are always unknowns, the database helps to fill in some of them.

### Kill Chain 01:46-02:24

The Kill Chain was developed by Lockheed Martin to identify and spotlight the hurdles a malicious actor must overcome to achieve his objective (usually an exploit or attack). This makes the bad guy's moves highly visible to a first responder or security analyst, and this helps the first responders defend their assets.

There are seven steps that create this high visibility: Reconnaissance, Weaponization Delivery, Exploitation, Installation, Command and Control, and Action on Objectives. We're not going to dig deep into each step right now. Just remember what the Kill Chain is and that it uses seven steps.

### Use Scenario 02:24-03:08

Now let's put all of this together and talk about how these three frameworks can be used in conjunction. The Acme Company has logged two separate security incidents. By using the Diamond Model, the incidence response team identified similar infrastructure and capabilities. These translate into the delivery method and command and control categories in the Kill Chain. Each incident is then compared to other recorded incidents at the Acme Company. When horizontal similarities are found, a threat group is created. Then the known information is entered into the opensource MITRE ATT@CK database. This produces a table with similar characteristics to the known information plus other information that may help fill in unknown variables.

### Summary 03:08-03:28

That's it for this video. We talked about three attack frameworks: the Diamond Model of Intrusion, the Kill Chain, and MITRE ATT@CK Database. Then we discussed how and incident response teams can use the three together to mitigate their security incidents.

## 12.1.4 Incident Response Frameworks and Management Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Attack frameworks
- Stakeholder management
- Internal policies

### Attack Frameworks

There are a few frameworks you can utilize for incident response. The table below describes three.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Framework
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     MITRE ATT@CK
    </td>
    <td>
     MITRE ATT@CK is a universally accessible database. This database contains techniques, tactics and
        other operational information about malicious actors. This data has been gathered and aggregated using empirical
        observations. All of this data are available to anyone for free.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Diamond Model of Intrusion Analysis
    </td>
    <td>
     The Diamond Model has four points; adversary, victim, capabilities and infrastructure. There is always
        a direct connection between adversary and victim. There is also a direct connection between capabilities and
        infrastructure. The way this model is used is very much up to the security analyst. Normally the analysts and first
        responders use these points (called meta or core features) to find and predict attacks.
     <p>
      For example, by identifying the types of victims and why they were attacked, the analyst/first responder can make an educated guess as to
        who is behind the attack and who are potential victims. This information can then be used to compare information in the MITRE
        ATT@CK database. Since there are always unknowns, the database helps to fill in some of the unknowns.
     </p>
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Cyber Kill Chain
    </td>
    <td>
     The Cyber Kill Chain was developed by Lockheed Martin to identify and provide visibility of the hurdles a
        malicious actor must overcome to achieve the objective to exploit or attack. This makes the malicious actor’s moves
        highly visible to a first responder or security analyst and is valuable in the defense of assets.
     <p>
      The following seven steps of an attack help a security analyst to identify the phases of an attack in progress.
     </p>
     <ul>
      <li>
       Reconnaissance
      </li>
      <li>
       Weaponization delivery
      </li>
      <li>
       Delivery
      </li>
      <li>
       Exploitation
      </li>
      <li>
       Installation
      </li>
      <li>
       Command and control
      </li>
      <li>
       Action on objectives
      </li>
     </ul>
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Stakeholder Management

You might use a table to organize communication pathways with stakeholders. The table should use the proper html class attributes. The header row of the table should use class=header. At least one paragraph should be included before the table.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Communication Target
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Internal stakeholders
    </td>
    <td>
     Maintain an open dialogue with all internal departments about development,
        implementation, testing, etc., of incident response.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     C level executives
    </td>
    <td>
     Keep incident response awareness a priority with C level executives. Their support will help to garner support from other employees.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Communicate with business unit managers
    </td>
    <td>
     Keep open lines of communication
        with unit managers. Be willing to accept their input. These are the people you will work with the most.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>

### Internal Policies

Your company should have internal policies in place to handle incidents and respond to them appropriately. The following table describes a few of these policies.

<table>
   <thead>
    <tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Policy
    </th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description
    </th>
   </tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr>
    <td>
     Communication plan
    </td>
    <td>
     A plan to effectively communicate important company information in the case of an emergency.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Disaster recovery plan
    </td>
    <td>
     A documented plan of policies and procedures that are executed in the event of a disruption of
        business.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Business continuity plan
    </td>
    <td>
     More detailed and longer than the disaster recover plan, the business continuity plan has procedures and policies for each business unit. The policies and procedures are written by each business unit with guidelines from corporate management. This document includes organization charts,
        phone lists, order of restore, and vendor contact information.
    </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>
     Incident response team charter
    </td>
    <td>
     A document that describes the creation and function of a specialized team trained to identify malicious actions against a network. The charter documents the funding, reporting hierarchy, authority, and responsibility of the team designated to stop an attack,
        investigate incidents, and collect evidence.
    </td>
   </tr>
</tbody></table>
